The seventh and final book begins with Tom and Tom 's Death Eaters having a meeting at Malfoy Manor .
They are beginning to plan out how to kidnap Harry during Harry 's evacuation from 4 Privet Drive when Harry will be vulnerable .
After `` borrowing '' Lucius 's wand in order to annihilate Harry once and for all -- Tom does so in a way that indicates Malfoy has no choice -- Tom kills his captive , Charity Burbage -LRB- the Muggle Studies professor at Hogwarts -RRB- for teaching the subject and penning an article suggesting that Muggles should be treated as equals to pure-bloods .
It 's revealed during this meeting that Lucius has lost all of Tom 's respect and that the Dark Lord 's favour has shifted to Lucius 's sister-in-law Bellatrix , who has helped wreak chaos on the wizarding community ; Severus , who has enabled a clear field for Lucius 's master 's rise to power with Lucius 's murder of Albus at Hogwarts ; and Corban , who has enabled the Death Eaters to infiltrate the Ministry of Magic by means of the Imperius Curse .

Harry , meanwhile , is rummaging through Harry 's school trunk , sorting what Harry will need to take with Harry from what will be left behind .
While taking a break , Harry reads some articles about Albus .
One is sympathetic , the other critical .
In those obituaries , it is revealed that Albus 's father Percival supposedly hated Muggles and had attacked three Muggle boys , earning Percival imprisonment in Azkaban , where Percival later died .
The other article is an interview by Rita Skeeter , concerning a forthcoming biography of Albus entitled '' The Life and Lies of Albus '' , in which she hints that Albus was responsible for the death of Albus 's younger sister Ariana , and that Albus was , at one time , a wizarding supremacist with Gellert Grindelwald .

Soon after , the Order of the Phoenix arrives with a plan to sneak Harry away from Harry 's house and avoid being captured by Tom .
After initially opposing the plan , Harry acquiesces , seeing that Harry has no choice , and George-Ronald-Fred , along with Fleur-Hermione , take Polyjuice Potion to make themselves look like Harry , in order to act as decoys for Tom .
Each depart with a different Order member -LRB- Ronald with Nymphadora , Fred with his father Arthur , George with Remus , Hermione with Kingsley Shacklebolt , Fleur with William , and Mundungus with Alastor Moody -RRB- to protect them while riding on broomsticks or Thestrals , while Harry leaves with Rubeus in a side-car attached to Sirius 's motorcycle .
However , the plan goes badly wrong as the group is attacked by Death Eaters almost immediately after taking off , during which Hedwig is killed .
Harry fights off Death Eaters by firing curses and hexes at them , while Rubeus uses a number of gadgets the motorcycle is now equipped with a deployable solid brick wall , a net , and a dragon-fire booster .

The Death Eaters discover the real Harry after he attempts to Disarm an Imperiused Stan Shunpike .
Moments later , Tom joins in the pursuit .
Rubeus leaps off the bike at another Death Eater , and as Tom is about to kill Harry , the latter 's wand acts of its own accord and shoots a curse at Tom that breaks Lucius 's wand .
Tom attempts to strike again , but at that moment , Harry enters the protective charms of the Tonks 's home , and Tom and the Death Eaters are unable to follow him .
Harry finds that Rubeus has crashed in the garden and he is able to get out a simple `` Rubeus ? ''
before he too collapses .

When Harry wakes up , Harry meets Tonks 's parents , Andromeda-Edward , who have been taking care of Edward and Rubeus .
The couple show the two a Portkey , which transports them straight to the Burrow .
There , the casualties are counted : Hedwig was killed by a Killing Curse from a Death Eater ; George 's ear was cursed off by Severus ; and Mad-Eye was killed by Tom George .

Harry later has a vision regarding Harry 's escape , as a result of a connection between Harry 's and Tom 's minds , in which Tom questions Garrick , who crafted the wands , about why Harry 's wand acted as it did .
Garrick is unable to explain .

During their time at the Burrow , Harry-Ronald-Hermione are kept busy with preparations for Bill and Fleur 's wedding , which Harry suspects is an attempt by Molly to stop their planning and delay their departure .
Nevertheless , they manage to get together and discuss their plans for completing the quest Albus left them , to find and destroy Tom 's Horcruxes .

The day before the wedding , Harry 's 17th birthday , he dreams of Tom searching for someone known as `` Gregorovitch . ''
For his birthday , he receives a number of gifts , the most useful being a new sneakoscope from Hermione .
Knowing that Harry was about to leave , Ginevra passionately kisses him as something to remember her by , which Ronald `` accidentally '' interrupts .

Later in the day , Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour , arrives at the Burrow to give Harry-Ronald-Hermione Albus 's personal effects , which had been bequeathed to Harry-Ronald-Hermione in his will :

* To Ronald-Deluminator with the power to douse all lights in the surrounding area .

* To Hermione , -LCB- -LCB- TBB -RCB- -RCB- , a book of wizard-culture fairy tales written in Runes .

* To Harry , Godric Gryffindor 's Sword , and the first Golden Harry had ever caught in a Hogwarts Quidditch match .

The sword is withheld because , Rufus claimed , it was not Albus 's to give .
The three try to discover the purpose of the objects given to them , but are forced to give their attention to other matters , specifically Bill and Fleur 's wedding the following day .

Harry disguises Harry as `` Ronald 's cousin '' Harry for the wedding to avoid causing an uproar .
After the ceremony , while Ronald-Hermione are dancing , Harry speaks with Elphias Doge and Ronald 's great aunt Muriel from whom Ronald learns more less than savoury details from Albus 's past : Albus had had a sister , Ariana , whose existence had been hushed up by the family and who Muriel believes was a squib .
Muriel also thinks that Albus killed Ariana .
Elphias is shocked and will not believe Muriel and is brought to tears because of all of the lies .
During the wedding celebration , Kingsley 's Patronus arrives to warn the attendants that Tom has taken over the Ministry of Magic and Rufus has been killed .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione flee the wedding , first arriving on Tottenham Court Road in Muggle London .
There , Harry-Ronald-Hermione quickly make for a -LSB- -LSB- Luchino Caffe | café -RSB- -RSB- to settle down and decide Harry-Ronald-Hermione 's next course of action .
Though Harry-Ronald-Hermione think Harry-Ronald-Hermione safe for the moment , two Death Eaters suddenly locate Harry-Ronald-Hermione , almost immediately upon Harry-Ronald-Hermione 's arrival , and attack Harry-Ronald-Hermione .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione manage to defeat the Death Eaters , but thinking Harry-Ronald-Hermione in danger in public , flee to 12 Grimmauld Place , former Order headquarters , where Harry-Ronald-Hermione hide .
Although there was some debate whether Severus could get in , with reinforcement Death Eaters , but their fears were soon realised to be untrue as they reach the dilapidated house .

The first morning there , Harry finds the name Regulus , the deceased younger brother of Sirius and a former Death Eater , on a bedroom door .
Harry realises that Regulus was the `` R.A.B. '' from the faux-Horcrux Harry found with Albus , and Harry , Hermione , and Ronald begin searching the house for the real one .
They soon surmise that the locket had indeed been in the house , at one time .
Unable to find it , they call upon Kreacher , the Black family 's house-elf .
Kreacher tells the trio that he had helped Tom place the real Horcrux in the cave .
After Regulus learned of this , however , he had ordered Kreacher to return with him to the cave in order to substitute a fake locket for the real one , as Regulus-Sirius-Phineas would have been safer not involved in Tom 's affairs .
Regulus was killed in the process while Kreacher escaped with the Horcrux locket .
Kreacher also tells them that Mundungus stole the locket , and they send Kreacher to find him .

While waiting for Kreacher , the trio are visited by Remus .
Remus explains more of the situation : Tom-controlled Ministry and Death Eaters are searching for Harry , claiming that Harry had a part in Albus 's death , and now openly persecuting Muggle-born wizards and witches .
Remus then offers to join the trio in their quest , not wanting to remain with Remus 's wife , Nymphadora , who is pregnant with their child because Remus fears the child will be a werewolf like Remus .
Harry calls Remus a coward for abandoning Harry 's son , and Remus angrily storms off .
Later , Kreacher brings Mundungus back to 12 Grimmauld Place , but he has already given away the locket to Dolores Umbridge as a bribe .

After a month of spying on the Ministry of Magic , the trio infiltrate it in order to retrieve the Horcrux from Dolores .
They ambush three employees and use Polyjuice Potion to impersonate them with Hermione taking on the appearance of Mafalda Hopkirk , Ronald looking like Reginald Cattermole , and Harry impersonating Albert Runcorn .

After being separated , Harry discovers Alastor 's magical eye has been taken by Dolores .
Thinking it a disgrace to Alastor 's memory to keep it stuck in Dolores ' door , he steals the eye , so as to give it a proper burial and the respect it deserves .
Once Harry reunites with Hermione , Harry witnesses the Muggle-Born Registration Commission , set up to convict Muggle-borns of `` stealing '' magic , at work .
Enraged by what Harry sees , Harry stuns Dolores and the Death Eater Corban , who is now head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement .
Hermione takes the Horcrux , which Dolores had falsely used to bolster her Pure-blood credentials , from Dolores .
By the time Harry-Hermione begin freeing the Muggle-borns , the Ministry knows that there are intruders in the building , having discovered Alastor 's eye missing .
Once Harry-Hermione reunite with Ronald , Harry-Hermione encourage the Muggle-borns to flee the country .

They make for the exit , and as they escape , their hiding place is discovered , Ronald is splinched , and they are forced to flee to the countryside , where they move from place to place , never staying anywhere for more than a night or two .
One night , Harry has a vision of Tom interrogating Gregorovitch and realises that Tom is searching for something Gregorovitch once had but which was stolen by a young man long ago .

After several weeks of travelling in which they accomplish nothing , they overhear a conversation between Griphook-Edward , wherein it is revealed that Godric Gryffindor 's sword , which had been in Albus 's possession and was then sent to the Lestrange Vault for protection , is actually a copy .
They also mention that the whereabouts of the real sword are unknown .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione also overhear that some students attempted to steal the sword from Severus , prior to its removal .
Upon hearing that the perpetrators were their friends , the trio worry about the punishment but are relieved to hear that their friends only served detention with Rubeus .
Harry-Hermione hear all this and are heartened , and after questioning the portrait of Phineas , Harry-Ronald-Hermione discover that the sword had last been used by Albus on another Horcrux , Marvolo 's ring .

Hermione realises that it must be impregnated with basilisk venom and therefore can destroy Horcruxes .
Ronald is discouraged , feeling that with the sword now necessary as well and out of reach , their quest is becoming hopeless .
Ronald argues with Harry and angrily departs claiming that Hermione had chosen Harry over Ronald when Hermione decides to stay , leaving Harry and Hermione together

Hermione is distraught upon Ronald 's departure , and Harry is angry , but the two of them realise they will have to continue without Ronald .
After many more listless weeks , they make their way to Godric 's Hollow on the off-chance Albus left the sword there for them , with Bathilda Bagshot , author of '' A History of Magic '' .
Arriving in Godric 's Hollow on Christmas Eve , the two first visit the graveyard where both Harry and Albus 's families are buried .
After sharing an emotional moment and laying a wreath on Harry 's parents ' grave , they visit the memorial to Harry 's family , and then encounter the historian Bathilda , who was an old family friend of Kendra-Albus-Aberforth-Percival-Ariana .

Harry-Hermione follow her to her old , disgusting home , where Harry-Hermione find a picture frame of Gellert , who is Bathilda 's great-nephew and , long ago , was Albus 's childhood friend .
However , Harry-Hermione do n't realise that the real Bathilda has been killed and her body has been taken over by Tom 's pet and Horcrux Nagini .
Only Harry can understand the very little that Bathilda speaks as he can speak Parseltongue , and Nagini is a snake .

Bathilda coaxes Harry up the stairs , ordering Hermione to stay behind , in order to ambush Harry .
Hermione seems reluctant , but Harry thinks that by following Hermione 's perhaps Hermione may present Harry with the Gryffindor sword .

Once Harry is upstairs , Bathilda 's body crumbles and Nagini flops out , and begins attacking Harry .

Upon leaving , Hermione runs upstairs to help Harry , unfortunately Hermione 's Blasting Curse rebounds in the chaos and cracks Harry 's wand in two .

As they Apparate , the very second that Tom appears , Harry 's mind begins to flash back to the night in which Harry 's lightning scar on Harry 's forehead became so , and it reveals exactly how Tom had killed Harry 's parents .

Harry was briefly incapacitated following the incident in Godric 's Hollow , and Harry and Hermione spend Harry 's few days convalescing in the Forest of Dean where Harry sits down to vindictively read Rita 's book '' The Life and Lies of Albus '' .
Harry discovers that the boy Harry saw in Tom 's mind is none other than Gellert and that Albus and Harry had been good friends as teenagers and had shared the idea that wizards should rule over the Muggles .
Making this discovery , Harry reaches a new level of disillusionment with Harry 's former mentor .

While Hermione sleeps , Harry resumes the position of keeping watch outside the tent .
Not long after a silver doe appears .
It is obviously a Patronus , due to the silvery texture and appearance .

The doe leads Harry away from the camp site and to a small , frozen lake , where , at the bottom , lies Godric 's Sword .
Harry breaks the ice using Hermione 's wand , strips to Harry 's underpants , and attempts to retrieve the sword .
Only when Harry attempts does Salazar Slytherin 's locket sense that the sword is near , it wraps itself so tightly around Harry 's neck that it cuts Harry 's flesh , keeps Harry from getting to the surface for air , and begins to both strangle and drown Harry .
Harry tries to make it back to the surface , but Harry only kicks Harry into the rocky and icy part of the pool .
Harry attempts to loosen the locket but Harry 's fingers are too frozen .
Harry begins to suffocate , and Harry feels a pair of arms -LRB- Harry thinks they belong to Death -RRB- wrap around Harry 's chest before passing out .

When Harry comes to , Harry thinks Hermione has come and saved Harry again , but Hermione has n't -- it 's Ronald !
Ronald was also able to retrieve the sword and cut the locket off of Harry 's neck .
Ronald asks Harry why Ronald did n't take the Horcrux off first , then explains that Ronald 'd been looking for Ronald and Hermione all day .
Ronald also reveals that while running to the pool , Ronald saw something move behind the trees .
Harry quickly dresses Harry and tells Ronald that since Harry was the one who got the sword out of the pool , Harry has to be the one to destroy the Horcrux .

Harry speaks Parseltongue in order for the locket to open and be able to be destroyed .
Tom 's eye appears when it opens and a voice begins speaking to Ronald , teasing Tom .

From the locket appears two figures : Riddle-Harry , and Riddle-Hermione , who was more beautiful and at the same time more terrible than the real Hermione .
They tease Ronald , all the time Harry is telling Ronald to stab it ; Riddle-Harry saying that Ronald 's Molly would rather have had Ronald for a son than Ronald .
Riddle-Hermione saying that nobody would ever look to Ronald when Harry was around .
She then proceeds to wrap her arms around Riddle-Harry .
They kiss romantically , and it is at that moment that Ronald almost fails in both spirit and mind .

He overcomes his weakness and smashes it with the sword , and the Horcrux is destroyed .
Harry tells Ronald that Harry has no deep romantic love feelings for Hermione , Harry loves Hermione 's like a sister , and that Hermione cried for weeks once Harry left .
They hug and reconcile , and Ronald is there to stay .
When they head back to the camp , they awake Hermione to tell Hermione 's of the good news : The Horcrux was destroyed and Ronald has returned .
Hermione , however , does n't seem too happy with Ronald leaving them .
Hermione begins to beat Ronald up .

Hermione is furious at Ronald for leaving for weeks and then suddenly showing back up .
Ronald explains that Ronald wanted to come back as soon as Ronald left but Ronald ran into some Snatchers , whom Ronald tricked into thinking Ronald was Stan Shunpike and escaped with an extra wand .
Ronald then tells them that early Christmas morning , Ronald heard Harry-Hermione talking through it -LRB- discussing Harry 's broken wand -RRB- .
Next , Ronald explains that Deluminator showed Ronald the way back to Harry-Hermione .
Ronald tells Harry-Hermione how Ronald saw the silver doe while waiting for someone to show Harry-Hermione and Harry following it , then explains how Harry watched Harry jump into the pool and then after a while realised something was wrong and rescued Harry , then grabbed the sword .
Harry and Harry tell Hermione 's about vanquishing the Horcrux -LRB- though Harry-Hermione 're careful about skipping the part where Riddle-Harry and Riddle-Hermione show up -RRB- .
In the end , Hermione lets him go and goes to bed without another word , while Harry-Ronald talk about how Hermione could have been worse .

Ronald reveals that Ronald was able to find Harry with the aid of Deluminator , which has many more useful abilities than they originally thought .
Ronald also reveals that Tom 's name has been `` made Taboo : '' anybody saying it can be traced and located , which is how they were found in the café back on Tottenham Court Road .
Hermione , who has recently been poring over -LCB- -LCB- TBB -RCB- -RCB- realises their next necessary step .
She tells them that they need to speak to Xenophilius and ask Xenophilius about Grindelwald 's mark , a symbol which has shown up time and again during their journey .
Only days after escaping from Tom in Godric 's Hollow , the trio begin searching the hills surrounding Ottery St Catchpole for the Lovegood residence .

At the Lovegood House , Harry-Ronald-Hermione are told that the symbol actually represents the Deathly Hallows .
Xenophilius then introduces them to '' The Tale of the Three Brothers '' , a fairy tale about three men who bested Death and who received a magical item for it : An unbeatable wand -LRB- called the Elder Wand -RRB- , a stone which could bring back the dead -LRB- the Resurrection Stone -RRB- , and an Invisibility Cloak that can hide the wearer from Death itself and never failed with age , unlike most cloaks of that nature .
Lovegood tells them that the three items are collectively represented by the symbol , and whoever masters all three artefacts will be the `` Master of Death . ''
Harry believes Harry 's own cloak to be the legendary Invisibility Cloak and is very excited .
They soon discover that Lovegood has betrayed them to the Ministry ; Luna , his daughter , was taken captive earlier in the year because he was encouraging support for Harry , and he believes that giving them Harry will win her freedom .
The trio barely escape from the Death Eaters sent to fetch them .
In an ingenious plan to ensure escape , but also protect Hermione throws Harry 's cloak over Ronald and blasts away the floor .
When they are sighted by the Death Eaters , she guides Harry and Ronald as they Disapparate away .

After hearing the story of the Deathly Hallows , Harry becomes obsessed with finding them , and Harry begins to neglect Harry 's duties as the group 's leader as Harry sits in reverie .
With Harry not performing , Ronald steps up to lead them as they venture up and down the island checking any place with links to the wizarding world for signs of another Horcrux .
After listless weeks , Ronald finally manages to tune into a rogue wizard radio broadcast called `` Potterwatch , '' run by Lee Jordan , which reports the news as it actually happened unlike the '' Daily Prophet '' .
The broadcast is quite entertaining , and Harry laughs for the first time in months .
However , after the programme , Harry accidentally says Tom 's name , breaking the Taboo , and a group of Snatchers find Harry-Ronald-Hermione .

Hermione 's quick thinking comes in handy when Hermione uses a jinx to disfigure Harry 's face so Harry is not immediately recognisable .
They all give false aliases , but the Snatchers soon find out their true identities , albeit a little uncertainty .
Because of their uncertainy , the Snatchers take the trio to Malfoy Manor .

There , they are taken into the drawing room to have their identities confirmed .
Lucius-Astoria-Scorpius-Narcissa-Draco 's son Draco is home for the Easter holidays .
He is reluctant to identify the trio , but when Lucius is satisfied that the prisoners are indeed Harry and Lucius 's accomplices , Lucius reaches for Lucius 's Dark Mark .
At that instant Bellatrix , who was with Lucius-Astoria-Scorpius-Narcissa-Draco , stops Lucius , because she saw a sword being carried by one of the Snatchers and believes it to be Godric 's Sword which was supposed to be in her vault at Gringotts .
She singles out Hermione for torture and interrogation , although Ronald tries and fails to take her place , to find how the trio acquired the sword , while Harry-Ronald are locked in a cellar with Griphook-Luna-Garrick .
Hearing Hermione 's cries , Harry locates Harry 's broken shard of mirror , sees a flash of blue in it resembling Albus 's eye and in desperation begs for help .
Upstairs , Hermione lies to Bellatrix , saying that the sword is a copy .
Bellatrix sends Draco to fetch Griphook who Harry convinces to corroborate Hermione 's story .
As Draco slams the door , Dobby Apparates into the cellar .
Harry orders Harry to take Luna first and then return for everyone else .
When Dobby Disapparates , the noise is heard upstairs , and Wormtail is sent to investigate .

When he reaches the cellar , Harry and Ronald attack him , but Wormtail resists , losing his wand to Ronald , but grabbing Harry 's neck with his artificial hand .
Harry calls upon the life debt that Wormtail owes him , and Pettigrew momentarily hesitates , and his artificial hand , made for him by Tom three years previous , immediately strangles Wormtail to death for the mercy he has shown .
At that moment , Hermione lets out a horrible scream of pain .
Harry-Ronald leave Wormtail 's body on the floor and rush upstairs to find Bellatrix questioning Griphook and an unconscious Hermione at her feet .
Griphook tells Bellatrix that the sword is , in fact , a copy .
Bellatrix kicks him aside and presses her Dark Mark .
When they crash through the door , Ronald disarms Bellatrix , and Ronald and Harry begin a fierce exchange of spells with the others in the room .
They are forced to stop when Bellatrix threatens to cut Hermione 's throat .
As Tom approaches , Dobby returns and drops a chandelier onto Bellatrix , who drops Hermione and runs away .
The chandelier falls onto the goblin and Hermione and shards of glass fly all over the place .
Ronald sprints to pull Hermione from the wreckage as Harry wrests three wands from Draco ; Ronald 's wand and the wands Harry-Ronald had taken during the earlier skirmish .
Harry picks up Griphook , seizes Dobby and Disapparates as Ronald does the same with Hermione .
They escape as Tom is close to arriving , but Dobby is struck by Bellatrix 's knife as they flee .
They Apparate to Shell Cottage , Bill and Fleur 's house , as Tom makes it to Draco Manor .
As Ronald takes Hermione inside , Harry sees that Dobby has been struck with Bellatrix 's sharp knife and that Harry is dying .
Dobby dies in Harry 's arms with the final words , '' `` Harry ... Potter ... '' '' as Harry is forced to watch helplessly .

As Harry stares at dead Dobby curled up on the grass , Harry ca n't help but remember staring at Albus 's corpse the same way .
William suggests that William bury William .
Harry believes that for Dobby 's bravery , Harry deserves a funeral just as grand , and Harry refuses to use magic .
Harry digs Dobby 's grave by hand as Hermione and Griphook 's injuries are tended to in the house .
While digging the grave , Harry does some thinking .
Harry realises that Albus had been right about Ronald-Dobby .
Harry comes to a reaffirmation of faith in Harry 's old mentor and loses Harry 's burning obsession with the Deathly Hallows .
Dean takes the injured Griphook inside as Bill tells Harry that Ronald has taken Hermione inside and that she 'll be alright .

Ronald Ronald come outside .
Ronald says to Harry that Hermione is doing better and Fleur is looking after Fleur .
Then Dean and Ronald join Harry with digging the grave .
The group holds a funeral for Dobby .
They provide clothes for Dobby ; Harry wraps Dobby in Ronald gives Dobby shoes and socks , and Dean gives Dobby a hat .
Luna says a few words for Dobby , as Harry is too grief-stricken to speak .

Ronald give thanks to Dobby , and Harry manages to choke out a goodbye as Harry forces Harry not to break down .
Harry asks for some alone time , then finds a large stone and places it , pillowlike , on Dobby 's grave with the epitaph `` HERE LIES Dobby . ''
.
Harry looks at the grave once more and heads back inside .

Once inside , Harry washes Harry 's hands , then tells Bill Harry needs to talk to Griphook-Garrick .
Harry meets up with Ronald-Hermione and then questions Griphook about how to break into Gringotts Wizarding Bank , believing that a Horcrux is hidden in Bellatrix 's vault .
This feeling was based on her reaction when she saw that the trio had Gryffindor 's Sword .
Harry then questions Ollivander about the Elder Wand , revealing his deep insight into Tom 's way of thinking .
Ollivander also gives him a lesson on wand mechanics ; when a wizard disarms , kills , or otherwise defeats another wizard , they can use that wizard 's wand as well as their own .
Harry tells Ronald and Hermione that Tom is seeking the Elder Wand as the way to defeat him .
While telling them this , he receives confirmation as he has a vision in which Tom successfully steals the Elder Wand from the tomb of Albus .

Griphook eventually agrees to help the trio , in return for Gryffindor 's sword .
Harry reluctantly concedes that Harry will have to give up the sword but plans to hand over the sword after all the Horcruxes have been destroyed .
Harry tells Griphook Harry can have the sword after they have broken in to the Bank , but Harry is very careful not to mention when , as Goblins are notoriously known for going back on their word .
The trio spend nearly a month planning in one of the Cottages cramped bedrooms , only seeing daylight or the other occupants of the house at mealtimes .
Harry , as well as the other two , comes to strongly dislike Griphook , because the Goblin seems to relish causing pain .
During Remus Remus visits them again .
Chastened by Harry , Remus had returned to Tonks by Christmas , and Remus came to Shell Cottage to tell everyone that she has given birth to a son who does not have Remus 's werewolf tendencies , but instead possesses Tonks 's Metamorphmagus abilities .
Lupin also gives Harry the honour of being Edward 's godfather .
After many rounds of wine , Remus departs , and as they are cleaning up , Bill corners Harry and tells Remus to be wary of Griphook .

After extensive planning , on 1 May the group sets out for Gringotts to obtain the Horcrux .
Hermione poses by way of Polyjuice Potion as Bellatrix using a lone hair that had been left on Hermione 's during the Skirmish at Draco Manor .
Ronald is disguised as a fictional foreign wizard , and Harry-Griphook go under the Invisibility cloak .
Through their use of disguises and Harry 's repeated use of the Imperius Curse , they manage to gain access to the bank .
As they are travelling down the tunnel to the Lestrange Vault , their cover is blown , and the Gringotts ' defences are set against them .
With Griphook 's help , they gain access to the vault and find the Horcrux , Helga Hufflepuff 's Cup .
Harry grabs it , but Griphook betrays their presence and flees with the sword .
Many guards begin to pour into the vicinity as Harry-Ronald-Hermione exit the vault .
Fighting off the guards , Harry-Ronald-Hermione narrowly escape on the back of a captive half-blind dragon which is released into the wild following Harry-Ronald-Hermione 's escape .
Gryffindor 's sword is kept by Griphook .

Sitting on the edge of the lake where they dismounted from the dragon , Harry has a vision shortly after their escape in which Tom lists off all the locations of the Horcruxes , now that Harry realises they are being sought after and destroyed .
Tom inadvertently reveals that the unknown Horcrux , which Harry suspects to be a relic of Rowena Ravenclaw , founder of Ravenclaw house , is safe within Hogwarts Castle , confirming a belief Harry had shared with the others to much derision .
Harry realises that if they want to get the Horcrux within Hogwarts , they need to do so immediately , before Tom finds Tom 's other Horcruxes are missing .
They immediately Apparate to Hogsmeade to find a way to sneak into the school .

When they arrive in Hogsmeade , they immediately trigger the Caterwauling Charm placed on the village alerting the Death Eaters to their presence .
Harry and friends are cornered by the Death Eaters , but are saved by Aberforth , Albus 's younger brother .
Harry also discovers that Aberforth was the one Harry saw in the mirror at Draco Manor .
During the ensuing argument , Aberforth urges the trio to flee , but they refuse to give up .
Aberforth then tells them the truth about Ariana ; Ariana had been a witch , but an attack on her by Muggle boys had left Ariana 's unable to control Ariana 's natural magical abilities .
Percival attacked the Muggles in retaliation .
The family kept Ariana and Ariana 's incurable condition secret to protect Ariana , with Kendra-Aberforth caring for her the most .
However , one of Ariana 's magical outbursts killed Kendra .
With Aberforth about to return to school , Albus took over care of Ariana .
At this time he was introduced to Gellert Grindelwald .
He began to neglect his duties as he was planning his uprising with Grindelwald , for which he was confronted by Aberforth .
Albus-Aberforth got into a duel , in which Ariana was accidentally killed in the struggle .

After sharing this sad story and being told by Harry that Harry 's brother regretted that moment to Neville 's death , Aberforth opens a secret passageway to Hogwarts , where Neville greets them .
The trio learn that Neville-Luna-Ginevra had restarted Albus 's Army to resist the regime of Severus , who was made headmaster following Tom 's takeover of the Ministry and that the members of the reconstituted Albus 's Army have taken shelter in the Room of Requirement to hide from Severus 's forces .

Believing that Harry 's return meant revolution , Neville summons members of the D.A. who have been forced to leave the school , including Luna-Ginevra , or those who had graduated previously , such as George-Fred , Harry 's old Quidditch team , and his first girlfriend , Cho Chang .
Harry asks them what they know about any artefact that belonged to Ravenclaw , which Albus believed to be a Horcrux .
However , the only known relic is Rowena Ravenclaw 's Diadem , which has been lost for centuries .
Wishing to see what the diadem looks like , Harry and Luna venture under Harry 's Invisibility cloak to Ravenclaw Tower .
He reveals himself to get a closer look at the diadem but is seen by Alecto Carrow who had been stationed to watch the room .

She immediately summons Tom , but she is immediately stunned by Luna .
Soon , both Amycus Carrow and Minerva arrive to see what the disturbance is about .
When Carrow suggests that they push the blame off onto the students , Minerva protests , and he spits in her face .
In a rage , Harry uses the Cruciatus Curse on Harry until Harry passes out .
Telling her that Harry is on a mission for Albus , Harry asks Minerva for time to search the castle , but before plans can be made , they come across Severus in the corridor , and in a fierce duel , Severus is run out of the building .

Shortly after Tom discovers that two more of Tom 's Horcruxes have disappeared and gathers an army of Death Eaters , Dementors , and Tom 's other supporters , in order to assault the school and kill Harry once and for all .
After forcing Severus to flee , Minerva , who only recently arrived , raise their own army consisting of teachers , students , the D.A , the Order of the Phoenix , and enchanted statues and suits of armour .

At midnight , the Battle of Hogwarts begins .
All the while Harry tries to locate the diadem and Ronald and Hermione who had gone missing .
Thinking that the diadem had not been seen in living memory , he speaks with the Grey Lady and surmises that Tom had learned of the diadem 's location from her .
Shortly after the battle begins , Harry recalls seeing the diadem in the Room of Requirement and meets up with Ronald-Hermione , who had disappeared in order to retrieve Basilisk fangs from the Chamber of Secrets to destroy the next two Horcruxes .
The trio re-enter the Room of Requirement , and Ronald remembers all about the house-elves in the kitchens .
Ronald does not feel that it is right to order them to die for them , so Ronald makes Ronald 's thoughts known .
With a clatter , Hermione drops all the basilisk fangs she is holding , and she and Ronald share a deep , meaningful kiss , completely forgetting that Harry is there and that there is a war going on .
After being reminded , they search the Room of Hidden Things , a version of the Room of Requirement that students have used to hide contraband over the centuries .
Once they are inside , they are confronted by Draco and Draco 's cronies Vincent-Gregory .
During a short duel in which Vincent aims to kill , Vincent mishandles the Fiendfyre spell , causing a huge inferno .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione-Draco and Gregory escape on two old brooms , and the diadem is destroyed by the fire , along with Vincent .
Soon after , Fred , who had just reconciled with Fred 's family , are seen duelling with two Death Eaters one of whom is Minister for Magic Pius Thicknesse .
After they defeat them , there is an explosion in the corridor , and Fred is killed , deeply affecting Fred 's parents , sister and brothers , as well as Harry-Hermione .

With the cup and diadem destroyed , only one Horcrux remains .
Tom 's snake , Nagini .
The trio fight their way through the castle , as the two armies battle furiously , dodging curses , Death Eaters , and Acromantulas and saving Draco 's life again along the way .
When they reach the Entrance Hall , they find that Giants have joined the battle .
Before leaving Hermione spots Fenrir Greyback trying to attack Lavender Brown on a balcony and casts a spell that knocks them off .
While Lavender stirs feebly , Fenrir tries to get up but Sybill Trelawney drops a Crystal ball on his head and he is knocked unconscious .
It is presumed that Lavender dies later .
Trelawney then grabs another Crystal ball and uses her wand to throw one with a `` tennis like serve '' .
Once onto the grounds , they come across Tom 's Dementors .
Unable to produce Patronuses , because of the horrors they have witnessed , all seems lost , and Harry even welcomes the oblivion that accompanies the Dementor 's Kiss .
They are saved by Seamus-Luna-Ernest , who conjure Patronuses long enough for Harry to summon the will to drive the Dementors away .
Then Seamus-Luna run to safety .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione finally make it to the Shrieking Shack , where Tom is waiting out the battle .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione discover Tom talking to Severus , who wishes to participate in the battle to find Harry , but Tom 's only concern is that the Elder Wand does not seem to work properly for him .
He coldly sets his snake on Severus , believing that the wand can not serve him while Severus is still alive , as Severus had killed Albus .

As he dies , Harry runs out to Harry , and Severus gives up Severus 's memories to Harry , and Severus 's last request was to look into Harry 's eyes who has the same eyes as Severus 's Molly Lily .
Tom then delivers an ultimatum ; if Harry does not surrender Harry in an hour , Harry will join the battle , and all in Hogwarts will be destroyed .
Returning to the castle , Harry sees the defenders looking for loved ones and counting up the dead , with Lupin and Tonks laying next to Colin-Fred .
After seeing this , Harry makes Harry 's way up to Albus 's office to view the memories Severus left Albus .

Harry dives into Severus 's memories , learning several surprising secrets .
Severus were friends as children , back when Lily was first discovering her magical powers .
The two remained close friends through school , even after Lily was sorted into Gryffindor and Severus was sorted into Slytherin , until the day Severus angrily called Lily a mudblood while being teased by James-Sirius .
This ended Severus friendship permanently , as Lily refused to accept Severus 's many apologies despite his total regret and remorse leading to him joining the Death Eaters .
After overhearing the prophecy involving Tom-Harry and reporting it to the Dark Lord , Severus was horrified when Lily was targeted and went to Albus begging him to keep Albus-James-Harry-Ginevra safe .
Albus agreed on the condition Severus promised his total allegiance to him , however even he could n't protect Albus-James-Harry-Ginevra due to Albus-James-Harry-Ginevra 's poor judgement in making Wormtail Albus-James-Harry-Ginevra 's Secret Keeper .
Afterwards , Albus knew the day would come Tom would return and Severus promised to protect Harry no matter what in Lily 's memory , which Albus did throughout Albus 's time at the school despite the boy reminding Severus of James and the risk to Albus 's life if Tom or the Death Eaters should find out .
Upon Albus sent Severus to return to the Death Eater 's ranks to act as a double agent for him .

Harry then finds out that , prior to Albus had put on the ring in a foolish attempt to see his deceased family only to fall victim to a curse which , despite Severus 's efforts , would kill him within a year .
Albus then tells Severus to do what he could to protect Draco and , knowing that Tom had ordered the boy to kill the headmaster , to take over the task .
As well as preventing damage to Draco 's soul from committing a murder , Draco would also be sparing Albus from a painful death .
Albus then explains why Harry is so important ; when Tom 's body was destroyed , a piece of his soul latched onto the baby since he was closest living thing -LRB- explaining why Harry can speak Parseltongue -RRB- .
In effect , Harry himself is a horcrux and must be killed by Tom personally to destroy that part of his soul .
Severus is horrified that they have essentially been preparing Harry to die at the proper time , and when Albus notes that despite everything Severus does truly care for Harry , Severus summons Severus 's Patronus which is a doe ... Severus 's love for Lily being so strong , Severus 's patronus changed to be the same as hers -LRB- as well as revealing that it was Severus who led Harry to the Sword of Gryffindor in the lake -RRB- .

Harry emerges from the memories , now knowing that Severus was always working for Albus against Tom and that Severus must die to destroy the Dark Lord forever .
Resigned to Harry sneaks out of the castle under Harry 's Invisibility cloak and stops to tell Neville to kill Nagini , the other remaining Horcrux , at all costs .
Then , before Harry sacrifices Harry to Tom , Harry opens Golden left to Harry by Albus to reveal the Resurrection Stone .
Harry uses it to summon the spirits of Harry 's parents , of Sirius , and of Remus , all of whom provide emotional support as Harry walks to Harry 's death .
Harry enters Tom 's camp and shows Harry .
Harry tries to betray fear as Harry allows Harry to be hit with the Killing Curse .

However , Harry finds Harry in a sort of dream and meets the deceased Albus in what appears to be a deserted King 's Cross Station .
Harry appears to be in a Limbo state in which Harry can speak to Albus .
Here , it is explained Harry can not be killed by Tom whilst Tom lives .
Since Tom used Harry 's blood to recreate his body , Lily 's protection over Harry binds the two and therefore tethers Harry to life .
Albus then gives Harry a theory on why Harry 's wand acted of its own accord : as a result of their encounter in the Little Hangleton graveyard three years previous , Harry 's wand was imbued with some of the qualities of Tom 's wand and regurgitated some of Tom 's own magic back at Tom .
Tom also discovers that the part of Tom 's soul Tom had had inside Tom has been separated by the attempted murder and is represented in Tom 's vision by a flayed naked child , whimpering in agony and abandoned under a bench , which is Tom .

Albus confides in Harry that Albus had sought the Hallows , with Grindelwald , for less than noble reasons and that the death of Albus 's sister resulted from their association .
In Albus 's opinion , only Harry is worthy of possessing the Hallows .
With all of his secrets in the open , Harry can no longer find himself angry with Albus even after all he has been through .
Harry is given the choice of moving on or returning to try to stop Tom .
Harry chooses to return to life and fight back .

Back in the forest , Tom appears to have collapsed at the same time Harry did .
Fearing not all went according to plan , Harry orders Narcissa to check and see if Harry is dead , and after being subtly notified that Draco , is alive and well inside Hogwarts , Narcissa tells Tom and the Death Eaters that Harry is indeed dead , so that Narcissa may enter the castle and find Harry .
Tom then attempts to desecrate Harry 's `` corpse '' by casting the Cruciatus Curse on it multiple times , but Harry feels no pain from these curses .
Afterwards , Tom orders Rubeus to carry Harry back to Hogwarts during the Death Eaters victory march .
Tom then challenges Hogwarts to surrender but is faced down by Neville .
Tom proceeds to torture Neville by summoning Sorting , placing it on Neville 's head , and setting it aflame .
At that moment , Hogwarts reinforcements appear near the school boundaries and run toward the school , the centaurs join the side of Hogwarts in the battle , and the battle recommences .

In the confusion , Harry covers Harry with the Invisibility Cloak .
Nagini , the last Horcrux , is beheaded by Neville using Gryffindor 's sword , pulled from Sorting in part for his bravery .
Harry fights Harry 's way into the Great Hall casting curses and protective spells from underneath Harry 's cloak , where a huge battle is taking place as Hogwarts fighters , Albus 's Army , the Order of the Phoenix , and other forces battle the remnants of Tom 's army .
Eventually , All the Death Eaters are either killed or defeated with just Tom-Bellatrix left standing .
Tom duels Minerva , his old mentor Horace Slughorn , and Kingsley Shacklebolt , while nearby Bellatrix battles Hermione-Luna-Ginevra .
After Ginevra narrowly avoids a Killing Curse , Molly takes over and brutally kills Bellatrix in a duel .
In his deep fury and anger , Tom tries to kill Mrs Weasley , but Harry reveals himself by casting a Shield Charm to protect her .

Coming face-to-face with Tom in the Great Hall , Harry is seemingly faced with impossible odds -- Tom possesses the Elder Wand and has murdered who Harry thought to be Severus Severus .
Harry believes differently based on the information Harry received from Ollivander ; as Harry sees it , Draco became the true master of the Elder Wand when Draco disarmed Albus against Draco 's will , therefore , defeating Draco .
Since Harry had taken Draco 's wand at Draco Manor , full mastery and control of the wand then passed to Harry , not Tom .
The two debate this point among the verbal barbs they trade , with Harry revealing that Albus also '' asked '' Severus to kill Severus if necessary to prevent anyone else from defeating Severus and having the Elder Wand 's power die with Severus , but that was prevented by Draco disarming Severus .
Harry also attempts to save Tom , who Harry is calling by Harry 's given name , Tom , from Harry by telling Harry to feel some remorse for all Harry had done .
This shocks Tom more than anything Harry has ever said to Harry up to this point .

Harry explains all of this to Tom , who chooses not to believe Harry .
Just as the sun breaks the horizon , Tom attacks Harry .
When Tom 's Killing Curse from the Elder Wand strikes Harry 's Disarming Charm , the Elder Wand flies out of Tom 's hand into Harry 's hand and the Killing Curse is directed towards Tom .
Harry 's theory has been proven correct -- the Elder Wand refuses to kill its true master .
Tom is bereft of all Tom 's Horcruxes , but since Tom 's soul is irreparably broken because of the Horcruxes themselves , Tom does not actually die .
Tom is gone , completely vanquished of power and life , but stuck in the limbo stage between life and death for all eternity .

In the wake of the battle , major changes begin to occur in the Wizarding world .
Kingsley Shacklebolt is appointed interim Minister for Magic and the Death Eaters are fleeing for their lives .
Harry takes the time to explain to Ronald-Hermione everything that happened as Ronald-Hermione walk to the Headmaster 's office .
Harry is now master of all three Deathly Hallows but chooses to leave the Resurrection Stone lost in the forest where Harry dropped it , and plans to return the Elder Wand to Albus 's tomb in the hope that when Albus dies its tremendous power will be broken , although not before Albus uses it successfully fully repair Albus 's own holly and phoenix feather wand .
Albus 's portrait applauds Albus 's decision .

In the story 's epilogue , taking place nineteen years later , that is in 2017 , Harry-Hermione-Ginevra and Ronald all meet at King 's Cross , preparing to send Harry-Hermione-Ginevra 's children to Hogwarts , where Neville has become the Herbology professor .
The four adults have remained very close friends , and their children too are very close .
Harry-Ginevra are married with three children named James , Albus , starting his first year , and Lily Luna Potter , who complains about having to wait two years to go to Hogwarts .
Ronald-Hermione are also married and have Harry-Hermione-Ginevra 's own two children named Rose , starting her first year with Albus , and Hugo , who has to wait two more years like Lily .
Harry incidentally sees Draco with his wife -LRB- later disclosed as Astoria -RRB- and son Scorpius , and is acknowledged with a curt nod .
James spots Edward kissing Victoire , interrupts them , and comes running to tell the others .
James also teases Albus that James might be sorted in Slytherin .
As James gets on the train , Albus confides in Albus 's father Albus 's fear of being sorted into Slytherin .
Harry tells him that he was named after two Hogwarts headmasters , one of whom was a Slytherin and probably the bravest man he ever knew .
When Albus is still scared , Harry tells Albus that the Hat will also take into account Albus 's personal preference , as it had when Harry Albus was sorted -- something Albus has never shared with any of Albus 's kids .
As Albus watches the train pull away , Harry absent-mindedly touches the lightning bolt scar on Albus 's forehead , noting that it had not pained Albus for nineteen years .
The story closes with the words , '' '' All was well . '' ''

