Harry remains at Harry 's house , 4 Privet Drive , living with Harry 's Muggle aunt , uncle and cousin and severely cut off from the rest of the wizarding world .
The neighbourhood is suffering from an exhausting heat wave and due to this , Harry spends the majority of Harry 's summer out of the house , going on walks and trying to avoid Harry 's aunt and uncle as much as possible because the paranoid pair wo n't stop badgering Harry over Harry 's interest in the news .
Harry is constantly rummaging through bins for old newspapers , searching for front-page news about the return of Tom in the '' Daily Prophet '' .
However , nothing unusual is reported , so Harry assumes that the Minister for Magic , Cornelius is still as oblivious and in denial of Tom 's return as Harry was before .

After running into Dudley and his street gang on a walk , Harry confronts Dudley after Harry 's gang leaves which turns into an argument , where Dudley mocks Harry about Cedric 's death , having heard Harry use that name in Harry 's sleep .
Harry immediately denies it and when Harry takes out Harry 's wand and pretends to curse Dudley with it ; a cold chill comes onto the duo and Dudley-Harry are then attacked by Dementors .
Harry attempts the Patronus Charm three times and is successful on the last try , and is surprised to find Arabella , Harry 's old , cat-loving neighbour , storming up the road towards the two teenagers .
Harry tries to hide Harry 's wand , but she tells Harry to keep it out in case more of them show up .
She is furious about Mundungus Fletcher , who was supposed to be watching Harry from the front of 4 Privet Drive only moments earlier .

While angry over the situation , Mrs Figg explains to a surprised Harry she is actually a Squib .
The two take a Demented Dudley back to Privet Drive , where Mrs Figg mentions she was sent by Albus to watch over Harry and also kept Harry 's visits to her house boring so Marjorie-Dudley-Petunia-Vernon would not send Harry elsewhere if Harry were happy .
After Mundungus Fletcher shows up , Mrs Figg scolds Harry for his foolish actions before sending him to inform Albus of this situation so he can act quickly .
Just before they part , Harry learns that Albus has been keeping him under observation in order to protect him after what had happened with Tom last month .
When Petunia and Vernon notice Dudley in Vernon 's sickly state they fawn over Vernon and Harry attempts to slip away , but Dudley speaks and assumes that Harry attacked Vernon with some sort of spell since Muggles can not see Dementors .

Before Harry can explain Harry , the Ministry of Magic sends Harry a letter telling Harry that Harry 's been expelled from Hogwarts for underage magic .
Before Harry attempts to run away before Ministry officials would come by to destroy Harry 's wand , another letter from Arthur arrives telling Harry that Albus is trying to sort this out and to stay put in Albus 's house , not surrender Albus 's wand , and not to perform any more magic .
As Harry is explaining that the Dementors are responsible , Petunia surprisingly shows Petunia has some knowledge of the Dementors .
A second letter from the Ministry arrives stating that Albus has convinced them to set up a hearing on 12 August to decide whether or not to break Harry 's wand and Harry is being placed on suspension instead of being expelled .

After Harry explains to Marjorie-Dudley-Petunia-Vernon about the Dementor 's abilities , Vernon blames Harry and is ready to throw Harry out , as Harry has always yearned to do so since receiving Harry , when Petunia receives a Howler .
Before Petunia has an opportunity to open the letter , it bursts into flames and a menacing voice says , `` Remember my last , Petunia '' .
Petunia then immediately convinces Petunia husband to let Harry remain at Privet Drive and tells Harry that Harry needs to stay in Harry 's room .
Harry has no idea of what 's going on .

Harry immediately writes letters to Sirius-Hermione .
After four days of being locked in his room , while dealing with his anger from the lack of response , Dudley-Petunia-Vernon leave to attend an award ceremony for the best kept suburban lawn in England -LRB- which was a hoax set up by Nymphadora to lure Marjorie-Dudley-Petunia-Vernon away from Dudley-Petunia-Vernon 's house -RRB- and a number of witches and wizards -LRB- auto denominated the `` Advance Guard '' -RRB- come to rescue Harry from Marjorie-Dudley-Petunia-Vernon 's home .
Dudley-Petunia-Vernon are members of the Order of the Phoenix , an elite group whose members fight Tom and the Death Eaters .
Among them were the real Mad-Eye Moody and Remus , along with some newcomers such as Nymphadora .
Lupin reveals that their destination is a hidden place that is much safer than the Burrow .
Lupin leaves a note for Marjorie-Dudley-Petunia-Vernon , then the entire group begins a long flight on broomsticks .
After flying through the cold night , they land at their destination and Moody gives Harry a piece of parchment that mentions their headquarters , 12 Grimmauld Place .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | George Weasley | Hello , Harry .
We thought we heard your dulcet tones .
| Fred Weasley | You do n't want to bottle up your anger like that , Harry , let it all out .
There might be a couple of people fifty miles away who did n't hear you .
| The Weasley twins , about Harry 's anger . -RCB- -RCB-

They bring Harry to their headquarters , 12 Grimmauld Place -LRB- London -RRB- .
The Weasley , Hermione , and Sirius are there .
While the Order of the Phoenix are having a meeting , Mrs Weasley takes Harry to the room where Hermione are before heading back .
Harry converses with Hermione and learns to Harry 's ire that Albus was the reason Harry had no contact from Harry 's friends all summer , though Hermione were uncomfortable with this knowing how Harry would feel .
They comfort Harry by explaining that they have n't been let in on everything that has been going on either since they are too young and have mostly been working on cleaning up the house as no one has lived there for years .
Fred and George then appear magically through Apparition , revealing to Harry they passed their test , followed by Ginny walking into the room and tells the twins it is now pointless for them to spy on the meetings anymore .
The Weasley reveal that -- besides Severus who has joined the Order -- Bill and Charlie have also joined .
Also that Bill has moved back to England to be closer to the family and has been teaching the former Triwizard champion Fleur who has also been working at Gringotts in order to improve her English , while Charlie has been given the task of recruiting foreign wizards to their cause .

As for Percy , Weasley sadly reveal Percy has deserted their family after Percy and Arthur had a fight over Percy 's recent promotion to Cornelius 's Junior Assistant .
Having denied Percy 's father 's claims that Fudge is using Percy , with Percy 's unwavering loyalty to the Ministry , Percy has moved away , breaking off contact in the process , even after a depressed Molly tried to straighten things out .
Harry also learns that the Ministry has been using the '' Daily Prophet '' to build on what Rita Skeeter started and is portraying Harry as some `` attention-seeking liar '' .
Hermione also reveals there have been no articles on the Dementor attack or Harry 's hearing , since the Ministry is likely waiting until the hearing is over before reporting on the likelihood of Harry being expelled .
After being called down for dinner , Tonks accidentally trips on an umbrella stand , which causes too much noise , and the portrait of a woman responds with strong cursing .
While helping on closing the curtains , Sirius shows up and reveals the woman in the portrait is his Molly .

Sirius explains to Harry that Number 12 , Grimmauld Place is the The 's ancestral home and that Harry inherited it upon Harry 's Molly 's death .
While they are setting up for dinner , Sirius reveals that compared to Harry , Harry has been confined in the house for a month since Harry is still a wanted criminal and that Tom and the Death Eaters would know Harry is an Animagus by now due to Wormtail informing them , which makes Harry almost useless to the Order .
Fred and George almost stab Sirius 's hand when they send a cauldron of stew , an iron flagon of butterbeer and a breadboard with a knife to the table and the knife slips off , which infuriates their parents , as they have been using their magic irresponsibly ever since they came of age .
They then have dinner , and numerous conversations go around , with Bill mentioning to his father and Lupin that the goblins wo n't join their side due to what happened with Ludo Bagman , and Mundungus Fletcher mentioning his business dealings before Molly asks him to stop .
After dinner , Sirius tries to tell Harry about the latest events and about their plans but Molly keeps saying that Harry is too young and that Albus told them not to tell Harry `` more than Harry needs to know '' .
After the two argue about it , Molly reluctantly allows Harry and everyone else but Ginny to stay and listen .

Harry learns that Tom is keeping a low profile and is building an army .
Though Harry managed to escape during Tom 's rebirth , allowing Albus to reactivate the Order of the Phoenix , it is difficult for them to convince as many people what has happened because of the Ministry and Fudge 's position , since Fudge believes that Albus is after Albus 's job ; Albus 's fears make it easier for Albus to believe that , rather than admit Tom is back , which would end the last fourteen years of peace .
Another reason the Order is having trouble with finding allies is the issue of their credibility .
Sirius is a wanted murderer , Lupin is a werewolf , and the members that work for the Ministry would lose their jobs since Fudge is willing to sack anyone just for disagreeing with Albus .
Fudge has also been trying to discredit Albus 's reputation to prevent Albus from spreading the information and is having the Daily Prophet cover up any news related to this .
Sirius attempts to mention that Tom is trying to retrieve a `` weapon ... something Tom did n't have last time '' , before Molly ask Tom to stop and Molly then send the kids off to bed .

After Harry and Ron head into their room , Fred and George apparate inside where the four briefly discuss their speculation on what Tom might be seeking before their Molly 's footsteps convince the twins they have to get back to their own room .
The next day while helping with the cleaning of the house with Mrs Weasley and the other children , Harry talks in secret with Fred and George and learns their joke shop plans are booming thanks to the money Tom gave them though they have n't got premises yet and their Molly remains unaware of it due to the fact she had cancelled their subscription to the Daily Prophet out of disgust .
While Molly is busy arguing with Mundungus Fletcher in another room , Harry meets Kreacher , the domestic-elf of The .
Harry is always cursing and muttering bad words , on occasion calling Hermione a mudblood and then insulting Sirius for betraying Harry 's Molly 's trust after Sirius arrives before Kreacher heads to another room .
Harry notices an old tapestry , that Sirius sarcastically explains is the family tree of the `` Noble and Most Ancient The '' .
Sirius reveals that Harry was disowned by Harry 's family at the age of sixteen and lived with Harry 's father James and Harry 's parents before Harry 's uncle , who was disowned as well , left Sirius some money to live on Harry 's own .

Sirius mentions to Harry that Harry 's younger brother Regulus , who was more obedient to their parents ' wishes , had been a Death Eater .
Sirius explains that Harry 's family was all for the purification of the wizarding race , getting rid of Muggle-borns and having pure-bloods in charge , and while not all of them were Death Eaters , they agreed with Tom 's ideals .
Sirius mentions that Harry 's brother was killed , presumably for attempting to abandon the Death Eaters .
After Molly calls them down for lunch , Harry stays with Sirius explains more about Harry 's family .
Harry is then surprised to learn that Sirius is related to Lucius-Narcissa-Draco through Narcissa .
Harry also learns that Tonks ' Molly Andromeda is Sirius 's cousin and that she was also disowned .
Both she and Narcissa had a sister , Bellatrix , who was sent to Azkaban .
She is the woman Harry saw in Albus 's Pensieve during Bartemius 's trial .

Sirius then mentions his parents ' home is only being used as the Order of the Phoenix 's headquarters due to the protective enchantments his father put on it years ago and the additional security measures that Albus set up , which is why he had to put up with moving back in .
After several more days of cleaning , on the night before Molly mentions that Arthur will be escorting him to the Ministry on his way to work .

The next day , Harry heads down to breakfast and learns that Amelia Bones will be in charge of Harry 's hearing , and Tonks assures Harry that she is fair .
Sirius reminds Harry not to lose Harry 's temper during the hearing .
Harry is nervous over the possibility of being expelled from Hogwarts , but Lupin assures Harry that underage wizards are allowed to use magic in life-threatening situations .
Arthur then escorts Harry to the Ministry for Arthur 's disciplinary hearing using the train in the London Underground to get there -LRB- since Harry ca n't Apparate -RRB- .
After spending time on the lift getting to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and then putting on an act with Kingsley about Sirius -LRB- due to the need to keep their affiliation secret -RRB- .
Shortly after arriving in Mr Weasley 's office , Mr Weasley 's co-worker , Perkins , runs in announcing that the hearing 's time and location has been changed , and Harry is already late .
The new location is in old Courtroom Ten in the Ministry 's basement .
Since the lift does not descend that far , Harry and Mr Weasley race down the stairs the rest of the way after getting off .
Just outside the courtroom , Mr Weasley stops , telling Harry that he must face the hearing alone .

Harry recognises the courtroom is the same one Harry saw in Albus 's Pensieve during Harry 's last school year .
Harry is acting as the head of the Wizengamot , and Harry is also surprised to see Percy acting as scribe , although Percy refuses to look at Harry .
After Albus arrives , Fudge starts the trial without giving Harry a chance to defend Harry .
Once Harry gets the chance to explain about the Dementors , Fudge labels Harry 's statement a convenient lie , but Albus is able to produce a reliable witness : Mrs Figg , whom Percy brings in .
Mrs Figg is able to describe the attack and confirms that the Dementors attacked Dudley-Harry .

When Fudge points out the unlikelihood of Dementors in Little Whinging , Albus suggests that someone within the Ministry ordered them there .
Fudge however , refuses to accept any of this as evidence and while Albus reminds Albus that magic can be used in these extraordinary circumstances .
Fudge dismisses this , given Harry 's past issues , reminding them of the illegal use of a Hover Charm three years ago .
While this was Dobby 's fault , Fudge refuses Albus 's suggestion to bring Albus in and also brings up the fact that Harry inflated Marjorie a year later , even though no charges were pressed .

Fudge also tries to bring up Harry 's rule-breaking at Hogwarts , but Albus reminds Fudge that the Ministry does not have the authority to punish students for what they do at school .
Albus points out the irregularity of the hastiness for this trial and attempt to destroy Harry 's wand without successfully proving these charges and also the use of the full Wizengamot for a simple case of under-age magic .
When the Wizengamot takes a vote , Harry is cleared of all charges with more than half of the Wizengamot raising their hands to clear Harry , though Fudge is slightly angry when Harry casts the verdict .
Albus leaves before Harry can thank Harry .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Molly | I do n't believe it !
I do n't believe it !
Oh , Ron , how wonderful !
A prefect !
That 's everyone in the family !
| George Weasley | What are Fred and I , next-door neighbours ?
| Molly , praising Ron . -RCB- -RCB-

Harry is puzzled by Albus 's actions before Harry leaves the courtroom and tells Mr Weasley , who was waiting outside , that Harry had been cleared of all charges .
Mr Weasley is surprised that Harry was tried before the entire Wizengamot , as they are also leaving the courtroom , with some showing them recognition , while others , like Fudge and Percy , completely ignore them .
Arthur decides to take Harry back to Grimmauld Place before Arthur heads out on an assignment .
On their way they see Fudge meeting with Lucius .
While Harry believes that Fudge may have been put under the Imperius Curse , Mr Weasley states that Albus has doubted this , believing Fudge is acting of his own accord .
Back at Grimmauld Place , everybody celebrates Harry 's acquittal .

A few days later , on the last day of the holidays , the children receive their Hogwarts letters and Ronald-Hermione are named prefects .
Molly is so pleased with Ronald 's appointment as a prefect that Molly agrees to Ronald 's request to get a new broomstick -LRB- though an inexpensive one -RRB- when Molly goes to Diagon Alley to pick up their new books .
Harry feels some resentment that Ronald was chosen over Harry as prefect , given all Harry has done at Hogwarts over the years .
Later that night , Mrs Weasley prepares a dinner party for the new prefects .
During the party , Harry feels better when Harry learns from Sirius that Harry and James were not made prefects either during their fifth year at Hogwarts , since Lupin was selected for that position instead .

After the party , Mrs Weasley goes upstairs to get rid of the Boggart Alastor Moody identified for her earlier .
Moody shows Harry an old photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix and identifies the people in the photograph , though hearing Moody describe the terrible fates of some of the members in the photograph makes Harry feel uncomfortable .
After going upstairs , Harry finds that the sight of her worst fears -LRB- all her family members and Harry dead -RRB- was too much for Mrs Weasley ; she started to cry before Lupin gets rid of the Boggart after arriving upstairs with Sirius .
As they help calm her down , Mrs Weasley wonders about the future of her loved ones .

On the day of departure to Platform Nine and Three-Quarters , the group is rushing to get ready as the children will be taken there under guard per Moody 's recommendation .
Mrs Weasley is angry with Fred and George for bewitching their trunks instead of trying to carry them downstairs and knocking Ginny off-balance .
Harry is assigned to go with Molly .
Sirius accompanies Molly in Harry 's Animagus form .
After Hogwarts departs , with Ronald-Hermione having to go to Harry shares a compartment with Neville , and a girl from Ginny 's year named Luna , who is a Ravenclaw student .
Later Ronald-Hermione show up and tell Ronald-Hermione who the new prefects are for the other houses , including Draco and Pansy Parkinson for Slytherin .
Luna is reading a tabloid magazine called '' The Quibbler '' , of which , she tells Ronald-Hermione , her father is the editor , after Hermione makes an insensitive comment towards the magazine .

Draco and Draco 's cronies then show up briefly and Draco makes fun of the fact that Ronald was chosen over Harry for the position of prefect and Draco 's comment `` dogging around '' causes Harry to worry that Draco might know now that Sirius is an Animagus .
After arriving at Hogsmeade station Harry notices that instead of Hagrid , Professor Grubbly-Plank , who previously substituted for Hagrid during their last school year , is there to direct the first years to their boats .
When boarding their carriage Harry notices that the carriages are being pulled by some sort of winged horses .
Harry points them out to Ronald-Hermione , but they can not see them , and act worried when Harry insists that they are right there .
Luna says that Luna can see them , and in fact could see them ever since Luna first came to Hogwarts .
Harry is mystified , since Harry could n't see them when Harry first came , but Harry can see them now .

The group arrives at the school , but not before Harry wonders about the winged horses , as well as Hagrid 's whereabouts .
Ronald gets into an argument with Luna over Hagrid 's disappearance .
At the Start-of-Term Feast , Sorting gives a warning in its new song .
After their meal , the students are surprised to hear that Dolores Umbridge , Senior Undersecretary to the Minister -LRB- who had been present at Harry 's hearing -RRB- is the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher -LRB- besides the announcement that Grubbly-Plank is once again taking over Hagrid 's teaching duties -RRB- .
Umbridge rudely interrupts Albus 's start-of-term notices and gives a speech which easily dulls the audience and Hermione realises through the hidden messages within the speech that the Ministry intends to meddle at Hogwarts .
After the feast , Harry goes to Gryffindor Tower with Neville -LRB- who knew the new password -RRB- and when Harry goes to Harry 's dormitory , learns that not everyone believes that Tom is back .
Harry argues with Seamus and insults Seamus 's Molly for believing in the '' Daily Prophet '' , before Ronald arrives and breaks it up .
Afterwards , Dean Thomas reveals his Molly does n't get the '' Prophet '' since she 's a Muggle , while Neville reveals that Neville and Neville 's grandmother cancelled their subscription since they support Albus-Harry .
Before going to sleep , Harry wonders how many fights Harry will have to have before people realise that Tom is truly back .

The next morning the trio meet in the common room and , after taking down one of Fred and George 's advertising posters , Hermione learns of the argument with Seamus and reveals that Hermione was having the same problem with Lavender Brown about whether Harry was telling the truth about Tom 's return .
That morning at breakfast , Harry learns from Angelina that Angelina has replaced Oliver as the captain for their Quidditch team and will be holding tryouts on Friday to recruit a new player to fill Oliver 's old position as Keeper .
Harry reveals that Harry has cancelled Harry 's subscription to the Daily Prophet out of disgust.The trio then meet with Fred and George and Hermione insists they can not advertise to test their joke products on students .
The twins bring up the fact that this year is important for the three of them since they will be taking their O.W.L.s. .
When the twins reveal they were n't sure if they wanted to attend their seventh year for their N.E.W.T.s , George almost lets it slip on why they do n't need to take them , though they and Harry cover this up as the twins leave .

Ronald then remembers that besides their O.W.L.s , they will also have Career Advice sessions to help determine what classes they 'll need to take next year for their N.E.W.T.s on what career they 'll pursue .
After going through most of their classes and getting a lot of homework , as well as Harry briefly meeting up with Cho Chang , they head to their first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson .
There they discover that Umbridge refuses to teach real defence methods and that they will not be performing any spells , only learning Ministry-approved theory -LRB- learning in a `` risk-free way '' -RRB- .
When various students start raising questions regarding this , Umbridge immediately contradicts them and also criticises the teachings of their previous two teachers , including identifying Lupin as a `` dangerous half-breed '' .

Harry disagrees with Umbridge about Tom , costing Gryffindor house points and getting Tom a detention .
Harry then has an outburst after she rebuts Harry 's attempts to convince her that this is not a lie and sends Harry to McGonagall 's office with a note .
Upon learning what happened , McGonagall urges Harry to keep Harry 's temper under control because Harry could end up in even worse trouble due to Umbridge 's position .
McGonagall then reveals the note Umbridge sent to her states that Umbridge has assigned Tom detention for a week .

Word quickly spreads amongst the students about Harry 's behaviour in Umbridge 's class that night at dinner , creating more snide remarks .
After they leave the Great Hall , Hermione explains to an irritated Harry that despite Albus 's speech at the end of the last school term about Tom 's return , the Ministry 's interference over the last two months prevented the truth from sinking in .
When they return to their common room , the trio talk about Umbridge and her class .
Hermione points out Umbridge was obviously sent by Fudge as a spy .
When the other students return from dinner , Hermione catches Fred and George once again testing their joke products on first year students .
Though Fred and George mean no harm , as they tested their products on themselves first , Hermione threatens to write to their Molly if they continue to test them on first years .
Hermione then goes to bed and also mentions the woolly hats Hermione brought are for the house-elves , confirming Hermione is still doing Hermione 's S.P.E.W. work .

The next day , teachers brief their fifth year students about their upcoming Ordinary Wizarding Level exams and give them a lot of homework .
Hagrid is still missing , and his class is taken over by Professor Grubbly-Plank .
During Care of Magical Creatures , Harry has difficulty keeping Harry 's temper under control when Harry hears Draco make some rude comments about Hagrid , including that it is likely that Hagrid will be sacked even if Harry did return to Hogwarts based on what Harry 's father told Harry .
Once Harry returns to Hogwarts Castle , Angelina mentions to Harry that Angelina is unhappy that Harry 's detention on Friday will prevent from attending the tryouts for their Quidditch team , as Angelina wanted the whole team to be there .

Due to Harry 's telling the truth about Tom 's return in Professor Umbridge 's first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson , she gives Tom detention every day for a week .
Umbridge refuses Harry 's suggestion to modify the punishment so Harry could attend Quidditch tryouts on Friday , believing it is the most effective punishment to make Harry miss out on something Harry likes .
She makes Harry write out `` I must not tell lies '' many times in Harry 's own blood , though Harry makes sure to keep Harry 's temper under control to avoid another outburst in front of Umbridge .
With Umbridge 's detentions and Harry has difficulty with keeping up on Harry 's homework .
Ronald is busy with something , causing Ronald to also fall behind in Ronald 's homework .
Ronald later mentions to Harry that Ronald wants to try out for the Quidditch team now that Ronald has a decent broom .
Ronald becomes concerned when Ronald learns about Harry 's detentions , but Harry refuses to go to McGonagall or Albus , knowing there is nothing they can do .

After Harry 's final detention on Friday , Harry learns that Ronald was chosen as their team 's new Keeper .
Angelina also apologises for the cold way Angelina criticised Harry earlier , due to the pressure of having to lead their Quidditch team .
Harry then meets with Hermione who is exhausted after making more hats for the house-elves .
When Harry mentions Harry 's scar recently hurting again , Harry refuses Angelina 's advice to see Albus .
Harry decides to immediately write to Sirius , but Hermione talks Harry out of it by pointing out the chances Harry 's letter could be intercepted .

On Saturday morning , despite Harry decides to write a letter to Sirius .
Harry writes about Harry 's detention and asks about Hagrid 's whereabouts , though Harry carefully codes the words and phrases in case the letter is intercepted .
After sending Hedwig with the letter , Harry notices the same mysterious winged horses Harry saw before outside .
Cho Chang arrives and praises Harry for standing up to Umbridge in her class , before Argus arrives .
Harry claims that Harry heard from a source that Harry was sending an order for Dungbombs , but Harry states that Harry already sent Harry 's letter , which Cho confirms .
After Harry arrives at breakfast , Hermione reads through the '' Daily Prophet '' .
She discovers that the Ministry has received a tip that Sirius is hiding in London .
Harry worries that Lucius may be the source , as Harry may have recognised Sirius in Harry 's Animagus form at King 's Cross Station .

Harry also notices an article saying that Sturgis Podmore , secretly a member of the Order of the Phoenix , has been arrested for breaking into a top secret room at the Ministry .
This causes some concern , as Harry recalls that Podmore did not show up for guard duty on the day they left for Platform Nine and Three-Quarters .
Harry then helps Ronald practise before their actual Quidditch training session begins .
During the training session , Draco and Draco 's gang are there to insult the members of the Gryffindor team , and a nervous Ronald is n't able to play at his best .
When an accident Ronald caused injures Katie Bell 's nose , which Fred unintentionally makes worse , Katie has to be taken to the Hospital Wing .
The remainder of the training session is then called off .
After he and Harry spend the next day trying to catch up on homework , on Sunday evening , Ronald receives a letter from Percy .

His brother congratulates him on becoming a prefect and urges him to stop associating with Harry , whom he feels is a bad influence , as well as believing that his family would one day realise their mistake for believing Albus and apologise to Albus .
Albus also mentions an important article is being released in the '' Daily Prophet '' tomorrow .
Ronald finds the letter extremely offensive , tears it up and throws it into the fire .
After reading the letter , Harry thought Harry had never felt more like Sirius , whom the wizarding world at large still considered a mass murderer .
Hermione then agrees to help Harry-Ronald catch up on Harry-Ronald 's homework .
After midnight , Harry-Ronald and Crookshanks are the only ones left in the Common Room .
Sirius contacts them through the Floo Network , as Harry wishes to respond to Harry 's letter this way in case Harry 's response was intercepted and the code was broken .
After talking about Sirius mentions that while Umbridge is no Death Eater , she possesses a strong racial hatred for half-breeds .
Sirius reveals she is the reason why Lupin can not find a job due to anti-werewolf legislation she proposed in the Ministry .

Once the trio mentions Umbridge 's classes only allow defensive theory and textbook reading , Sirius explains based on their information , Fudge does not want them trained in combat .
Fudge believes Albus intends to use the Defence Against the Dark Arts class to raise the students as an army to take on the Ministry , and wants to prevent this possibility with the new curriculum .
Sirius knows that with Fudge 's growing paranoia , it is only a matter of time before Albus finds an excuse to arrest Albus .
Sirius then asks Harry not to worry about Hagrid .
Sirius reveals while Olympe Maxime mentioned in her message they got separated on the way home , he knows Hagrid 's tough and asks Harry not to raise too many questions about Hagrid or they will attract the Ministry 's attention .
When Sirius suggests about meeting them in disguise at Harry advises Harry not to given the '' Daily Prophet '' article and that Draco might recognise Harry if Sirius were to show up .
Sirius then leaves , but mentions Harry will send a letter when Harry feels it is safe to communicate by the Floo Network again .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Dolores Umbridge | ... none of -LSB- your previous teachers -RSB- with the possible exception of Professor Quirrell , ... would have passed a Ministry inspection .
| Harry | Yeah , Quirrell was a great teacher , there was just that minor drawback of him having Tom sticking out of the back of his head .
| Harry , during a DADA class -RCB- -RCB-

It becomes clear Umbridge is really there to spy on and take control of the school , and is soon appointed High Inquisitor , arbitrarily imposing rules and regulations -LRB- known as `` Educational Decrees '' -RRB- .
She also harbours racial hatred for `` half-breeds '' , such as centaurs , werewolves and similar creatures .
Umbridge starts to observe the professors in class , where she apparently intends to evaluate all teachers .

Hermione convinces Harry to secretly teach students Defence Against the Dark Arts .
Though at first reluctant , Harry finally accepts .
They hold a meeting at the Hog 's Head to discuss with other students the possibility of Harry giving them Defence lessons .
Harry is stunned at how many there are : Neville and her friend whom Harry does not recognise , Luna , Katie Bell , Angelina , Ernest , Justin Finch-Fletchley , Hannah , Susan Bones , Anthony , Michael Corner , Terry , Ginevra , a Hufflepuff Quidditch team member -LRB- later identified as Zacharias Smith -RRB- , Fred and George , and Lee Jordan .
Harry has only agreed to teach defensive magic .
At the end of the meeting Hermione has everyone sign a piece of parchment , which is an agreement to keep the group secret .

After hearing about the defensive magic organisation , Dolores Umbridge uses her power as Hogwarts High Inquisitor to pass this Educational Decree , which immediately disbands all existing clubs , teams , societies and groups and forbids further groups -LRB- defined as ` the regular meeting of three or more students ' -RRB- without the High Inquisitor 's consent .
Any student found to be in noncompliance of the Decree is to be expelled immediately .
Harry worries that someone from the Hog 's Head group might have betrayed them , but Hermione informs Harry that Hermione enchanted the parchment they all signed to inform Hermione 's if someone did .
Harry also learns from Angelina that the Quidditch teams have also been disbanded under the new decree -LRB- although Umbridge unsurprisingly immediately gives the Slytherin team permission to reform -RRB- and asks Harry to promise Hermione not to provoke Umbridge again out of fear Hermione might not reinstate the Gryffindor team .

Despite the prohibition , they name their clandestine group `` Albus 's Army '' , or the D.A. for short , to mock the Ministry of Magic , which fears Albus is creating a secret wizard army .
Harry assures all the 25 members that the meetings would go ahead once an ideal location was found .
Soon , Harry is told about the Room of Requirement by the house-elf Dobby .
For the safety of the group , Hermione bewitches some coins with a Protean Charm , one for each member of the D.A. .
When activated by Harry , the numbers on each coin change to inform the bearer of the time and date of the next meeting .
In the D.A. meetings , Harry starts them off slowly , practising the Disarming Charm .
The class progresses at a fair rate , practising the Impediment Jinx , the Reductor Curse , and the Stunning Spell .

The Gryffindor Quidditch team begin their season with a victory against Slytherin , despite the fact that Ronald was very nervous and did n't play well , and the Slytherins composed a song mocking Ronald 's performance .
Shortly after the match , Draco insults and provokes Harry .
Harry and George attack him , but all three have their broomsticks confiscated and are given lifetime bans by Umbridge .
They are replaced by Ginevra , respectively .
That night , they discover that Hagrid has returned .

Rubeus returned from Rubeus 's mission for Albus badly injured .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione visit Ronald and Rubeus tells Harry-Ronald-Hermione about Ronald 's unlucky negotiations with the giants .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione learn that the Death Eaters were also trying to recruit Harry-Ronald-Hermione , and he was unsuccessful in trying to convince the giants to help the Order .
Rubeus resumes his teaching post , beginning with a lesson about Thestrals , the mysterious winged horses only Harry could see .
Harry learns that only people who have witnessed death are able to see them .

Rubeus returns to his class and he is observed by Umbridge while teaching about Thestrals .
Harry is expelled from Quidditch by Umbridge and Ginevra replaces Harry as Gryffindor 's Seeker .

Harry has disturbing dreams about running down a hallway and attempting to open a door in the Ministry of Magic 's Department of Mysteries , but being unable to do so .
Then one night Harry dreams that Harry is a snake attacking Ronald 's father .
Harry awakens in a panic and tells others , who indeed find Mr Weasley at the Ministry , suffering from severe venomous snake bites .

Critically injured , Arthur is taken to St Mungo 's .
Arthur survives the attack , but is required to take a Blood-Replenishing Potion at regular intervals .
Arthur shares the ward with a man who had been bitten by a werewolf and a woman with a massive chunk out of her leg who refused to tell the Healers what had bitten her , arousing suspicions she had been handling something illegal .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Harry | I did n't want anyone to talk to me .
| Ginevra | Well , that was a bit stupid of you , seeing as how you do n't know anyone but me who 's been possessed by You-Know-Who , and I can tell you how it feels .
| Ginevra talking to Harry -RCB- -RCB-

Hermione joins Harry and Fleur-Percy-Arthur-Ronald-Angelina-Molly at Grimmauld Place for Christmas , and Percy sends back Percy 's Neville jumper , which makes Neville 's Molly very sad .
Ronald-Hermione-Ginevra discover that Neville 's parents are insane and living at St Mungo 's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries .
Ronald-Hermione-Ginevra also see Ronald-Hermione-Ginevra 's former Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Gilderoy .
Harry finally says that Harry knew what happened to Neville 's parents .

After the holidays , Harry and the Weasleys return to Hogwarts .
Harry fears he is being possessed by Tom .
In response , Albus has Severus teach Harry Occlumency to block Severus 's mind from intrusion .
During the class Harry sees the dark corridor in the Department of Mysteries that he often dreams about .

Puddifoot 's -RSB- -RSB-

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Ronald Weasley | He used to be a Death Eater .
And we 've never seen proof that he really swapped sides .
| Hermione | Albus trusts him .
And if we canʹt trust Albus , we ca n't trust anyone .
| Hermione and Ronald , about Severus -RCB- -RCB-

Due to the high number of students who are sceptical of Hermione blackmails journalist -LRB- and unregistered Animagus -RRB- Rita Skeeter into writing a favourable article about Harry witnessing Tom 's return .
Luna arranges with Luna 's Xenophilius to publish the story in his paper , '' The Quibbler '' .
Furious , Umbridge bans the tabloid from the school and strips Harry of his Hogsmeade visitation rights , but the story spreads rapidly , gathering support for Harry .
Many in the wizarding community also now begin to believe Harry .

Umbridge considers Rubeus -LRB- a half-giant -RRB- and Sybill Trelawney incompetent , and sacks Trelawney .
Although Albus is unable to prevent Trelawney 's dismissal , Albus invokes Albus 's authority to allow her to remain in the castle and appoints a new Divination teacher - a centaur , Firenze , much to Umbridge 's disgust , due to her hatred for half-breeds .

When Umbridge learns of the meetings of the DA through Cho Chang 's friend Marietta Edgecombe , Albus claims that Albus organised it .
Confronted by two Aurors John Dawlish and Kingsley Shacklebolt -LRB- who was not loyal to the Ministry , but to Albus -RRB- , Cornelius , and Umbridge , Albus easily disables them and is spectacularly whisked away by Fawkes .

Umbridge is appointed Headmistress and imposes even tighter control .
Fed up , the Weasley twins instigate a revolt , causing mayhem throughout the school while the staff pointedly do nothing to help Umbridge regain control .

During one of the Occlumency lessons Harry uncovered the source behind Severus 's hatred for Severus 's father , when Severus went into Albus 's Pensieve -LRB- borrowed by Severus -RRB- and saw both Severus 's memories of being bullied by James and the breaking up of Severus and Severus 's Molly 's friendship .
Severus ended the lesson abruptly after this .

Harry and the other fifth years are getting ready to begin the sessions on the advice of what they 'll need to do to prepare for the careers they 'll pursue after graduation .
Before that , Harry wishes to learn more about what happened at Hogwarts during Harry 's father 's time and decides to contact Sirius at Grimmauld Place to talk about Sirius treatment of Severus .
After going through an interrogation with Umbridge regarding Albus and Harry learns the Floo Network connection in her fireplace is not being monitored like the others are by the Ministry .

Under Fred and Harry Harry decides to sneak into Umbridge 's office and use her fireplace while they 'll distract her .
Harry is able to talk with Lupin and Sirius a bit before Harry has to pull back due to the twins being caught .
This marks the end of Fred and George 's magical education , who now opt to move into their magical tricks and joke shop in Diagon Alley , Weasleys ' Wizard Wheezes and fly away from Hogwarts .

During Harry 's career advice session with Minerva , Harry tells Minerva 's that Harry wants to be an Auror .
Suddenly they are rudely interrupted by the headmistress , Dolores Umbridge ; she remarks against Harry 's ambition of being an Auror .
The meeting ends up with Minerva supporting Harry , and having a screaming argument with Umbridge .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b-a | Rubeus | They were bullyin ' him , Hermione , 'cause he 's so small !
| Hermione | Small ?
Small ?
| Hermione , I could n't leave him .
See - he 's my brother !
| Rubeus , about Grawp -RCB- -RCB-

Fred and George 's departure from Hogwarts triggers a revolt among the students .
During this , Harry finally reveals that Harry gave them Harry 's Triwizard winnings , which is how they got the money to buy everything they need .
As Ronald is playing in Harry Harry-Hermione are whisked away by Rubeus to introduce Ronald 's half-brother Grawp .
Reasoning that it is only a matter of time before Ronald is driven out of Hogwarts by Umbridge now that Albus is gone , Rubeus wants Harry-Hermione to take care of Grawp in Ronald 's stead once this happens .
When the centaurs show up , Harry-Hermione learn that Firenze becoming the Divination teacher and Grawp 's presence in the Forbidden Forest have angered Harry-Hermione .
The centaurs make it clear to Rubeus that their patience is running thin to where they would n't hesitate to attack any human that enters their forest .

Harry and Harry 's fellow fifth years begin going through their O.W.L. examinations .
During the night , Umbridge orders several Aurors to evict Rubeus from Hogwarts .
She acts , this time , under the cover of darkness to avoid what happened with Sybill Trelawney .
Rubeus resists their spells and Minerva is injured when protesting against the use of excessive force against Rubeus .
Rubeus is able to escape and Minerva is sent to St Mungo 's .

Harry receives a vision that Sirius is being tortured at the Department of Mysteries , although Hermione suspects it may be a trap .
Harry desperately attempts to contact Sirius at Grimmauld Place via Floo Network in Umbridge 's office fireplace once again , but this time Harry is caught .

Umbridge reveals it was she who sent the Dementors to attack Harry during the summer .
When Severus enters the interrogation , Harry tries to pass on a coded message to Severus , but is unsure if Severus understands or intends to deliver it .
After Severus leaves , Umbridge is about to use the Cruciatus Curse on Harry until Hermione claims that Albus has hidden a powerful weapon in the Forbidden Forest .
Hermione leads Harry into the forest , where Harry encounter centaurs .
The Skirmish in the Forbidden Forest ensues , and Umbridge foolishly insults Harry and an angry centaur picks up Umbridge and carries Hermione 's off screaming into the woods .
When Rubeus 's giant half-brother , Grawp crashes onto the scene , Hermione and Harry escape amid the chaos .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione , along with Neville-Luna-Ginevra fly to the Ministry of Magic on the school 's Thestrals , unaware Harry-Ronald-Hermione are being lured into a trap .

When they arrive at the Department of Mysteries , they are ambushed by Death Eaters .
Tom seeks a prophecy contained in a glass sphere there and needs Harry to retrieve it for Harry .
All of the six students heroically fight the many Death Eaters , but they are dangerously outmatched .

The group is nearly defeated , but Order members suddenly arrive to help them .
During the ensuing battle , the glass sphere is shattered and the prophecy lost .
Sirius is blasted with a spell by Bellatrix , and falling backwards , disappears through a mysterious veiled archway .
Remus restrains Harry , who wants to follow and rescue Sirius , telling Remus that Sirius is dead .

Albus arrives and the Death Eaters , except for Bellatrix , are captured .
Tom appears and duels with Albus .
After fighting the old hero to a stalemate , Albus attempts to possess Harry in the hope that Albus will kill Harry , seeking to drive Tom out .
However , Harry is too full of grief for the death of Sirius , or love , and Tom can not reside in Harry 's soul without suffering unendurable pain .
Ministry of Magic employees arrive in time to see the Dark Lord before Harry disapparates , taking Bellatrix with Harry .
Harry finally admits Tom has returned and Harry 's interview with Rita Skeeter is reprinted in the '' Daily Prophet '' .

Later , Albus apologises to Harry for withholding information over the past year .
Albus reveals the lost prophecy , for it was to Albus that it was first told :

<blockquote> '' The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches ... born to those who have thrice defied him , born as the seventh month dies ... and the Dark Lord will mark him as equal , but he will have power the Dark Lord knows not ... and either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live while the other survives ... the one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord will be born as the seventh month dies ... '' </blockquote>

Albus also reveals that , due to when the boy was predicted to be born , Neville could also have been the child in the prophecy .
Albus believes Tom chose to attack Harry because Harry is a half-blood like Harry ; Neville is a pureblood .
In doing so , the Dark Lord marked Harry as Harry 's equal ; therefore , there is no doubt that the prophecy relates to anyone but Harry .
Albus also reveals to Harry that Albus never chose Harry as a prefect because Albus thought that Harry `` had enough responsibility to be going on with . ''

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Vernon | Are you threatening me , sir ?
| Alastor Moody | Yes , I am .
| Moody , to Vernon -RCB- -RCB-

While packing , Harry sees the two-way mirror that Sirius gave Harry , and tries to call Harry 's godfather , but Harry sees nothing .
Then suddenly Harry has the idea to talk to Nearly Headless Nick , and ask Harry if Sirius could come back as a ghost .
Nick says that Sirius is not the kind of wizard who would do that , which leaves Harry disappointed and sad .
Later , at King 's Cross Station , Harry is surprised to find that Nymphadora-Remus are there to greet Harry and to ask Dursley to treat Harry better this summer .
Ronald-Hermione say goodbye to Harry with the promise that Ronald-Hermione will meet very soon .

