Harry has returned to the Dursley for the summer holiday in mid-1992 , and things are very bad for Harry .
Over the summer , Dursley have become so fearful of Harry 's new-found magical abilities that they have locked away all of Harry 's magical supplies -LRB- e.g. Harry 's wand , Harry 's broomstick , spellbooks , etc. -RRB- immediately after Harry 's arrival home .
They have also banned Harry from saying words such as `` magic '' in the house , as evident in Vernon 's outburst at breakfast .
This has become a problem for Harry Harry , who begins to worry about what Harry 's teachers at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry will think if Harry heads back to them without back homework done , and whether or not Harry 'll be banned from the Gryfindor House Quidditch team since Harry has not been able to practise .
The only thing Dursley let Harry keep in Harry 's room , however , is Hedwig , but have put a padded lock on Hedwig 's cage to keep Hedwig 's inside day and night to avoid suspicion from the neighbours .
This does not go well for the bird , because every time Hedwig has become bored , Hedwig 's screech has rung throughout the house , causing an irritated Vernon to warn Harry that if Harry can not control Hedwig , Hedwig will have to go .

On 31 July -LRB- Harry 's twelfth birthday -RRB- , Harry has never felt so lonely , for Harry misses Hogwarts and Harry 's best friends there , Ronald and Hermione .
Neither of them have written to him all summer , not even to send birthday wishes .
The Dursley seem to have also forgotten his birthday , because they are too busy preparing for a dinner party meant for one of Vernon 's clients , Mr , from whom Vernon is hoping to get a huge order .
The only unchangeable thing on the Dursley 's schedule , however , is that Harry has to stay in Harry 's room for the night , making no noise and `` pretending Harry does n't exist '' .
While Dudley-Vernon are preparing to drive into town to buy dinner jackets , Harry goes out into the garden in order to stay out of Harry 's Petunia 's way as Petunia is cleaning , singing happy birthday to Harry .
Harry stares into the hedge , and sits bolt upright when Harry sees Dobby staring back at Harry among the leaves .
When Dudley comes waddling over and wishes Dudley 's cousin a happy birthday , mocking Dudley with the lack of celebrations .
Harry gets annoyed and scares Harry away by pretending to think of a spell meant to bur the bush bare out loud , but Petunia comes out when Dudley calls for Petunia and beats Petunia 's nephew with a soapy frying pan .
Petunia then gives Harry some chores to do while Dudley-Vernon are gone , and once Harry is finished , it 's almost a half-hour before Mr-Mrs are due to arrive .
Harry goes up to Harry 's room without making a sound during the party as promised , but when Harry gets there , someone else is on Harry 's bed .

The thing on Dudley 's bed , a house elf named Dobby , tells Harry that Dudley must not go back to Hogwarts , as it will be dangerous because terrible things are going to happen there .
The elf , however , ca n't tell Dudley what things , and continues to be vague because every time Dudley gets close to letting something slip Dudley starts hurting Dudley .
In the process , Dudley makes a lot of noise , which is noticed by the group downstairs .
When Dudley hears Vernon coming upstairs -LRB- claiming that Dudley must have left the TV upstairs on -RRB- , Harry hides the elf in Harry 's closet right before Vernon comes in and scolds Harry 's nephew for making such a racket which has messed up the punchline of Dudley 's `` Japanese golfer joke '' .
Dudley lets Dobby out as soon as Dudley 's uncle leaves , and insists that Dudley has to go back to Hogwarts since that 's where Dudley has friends despite them not writing to Dudley .
But to Dobby then reveals that Dudley has stopped letters being sent to Harry , and offers them to Dudley if Harry will stay away from Hogwarts .
Harry refuses and , making a frustrated Dobby run downstairs and use a Hover Charm to smash the dinner party 's pudding .

Harry is blamed for the incident once Dobby Disapparates , and Vernon shoos the shocked Masons into the dining room while Harry cleans up , promising to deprive the boy of an inch of Harry 's life .
The evening is almost saved until an owl from the Ministry of Magic is promptly received -LRB- scaring away Mrs , who is mortally afraid of birds -RRB- with a warning saying that Harry has violated the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery , though Harry is not actually punished -LRB- possibly because it is only Harry 's first offence -RRB- .
After realising that Harry is n't allowed to do magic outside of Hogwarts grounds , Vernon locks Harry in Harry 's room .
Vernon reasons that if Harry uses magic to get Harry out , Harry will be expelled anyway .

The Dursley 's punishment lasts for three days , until George-Ronald-Fred , worried about not hearing from Harry all summer , borrow George-Ronald-Fred 's father 's Flying and come to the rescue .
George-Ronald-Fred are able to break the metal bars off Harry 's window and help Harry pick the lock to Harry 's door so that Harry can get Harry 's Nimbus 2000 and trunk .
The Dursley discover Harry 's escape attempt , but by the time they can intervene , Harry-George-Ronald-Fred have got everything of Harry 's and have flown away .
On the flight to the Burrow , Harry explains Dobby 's warning .
They all agree that it 's very fishy and speculate that Dobby most likely belongs to the Malfoys who sent Dobby to Harry as a joke since Lucius-Draco are an old wizarding family of great wealth .
George-Fred tell Harry that Lucius Malfoy used to work for Voldemort but claimed that the Dark Lord bewitched him after Voldemort lost his powers .
Harry is taken to the Burrow , George-Arthur-Ronald-Molly-Fred 's home , and Harry finds the house truly amazing .
Since George-Ronald-Fred took the car without permission , George-Ronald-Fred are yelled at by Molly , who was waiting in the kitchen .
After George-Ronald-Fred 's scolding , she makes George-Ronald-Fred breakfast and has the three Weasley boys -LRB- and Harry who volunteered -RRB- de-gnome the garden refusing to use a technique from '' Gilderoy Lockhart 's Guide to Household Pests '' , and do it their own way .
Arthur soon comes home and is honoured to meet Harry after they are introduced to each other .
Molly , Arthur 's wife , yells at Arthur for enchanting the car .
Ginevra , who was enrolling at Hogwarts that year , is very obviously enamoured with Harry and spends most of the chapter hiding from Harry .

Harry stays at the Burrow until Harry 's departure for Hogwarts .
George-Arthur-Ronald-Molly-Fred make it clear that they all like Harry .
For example , Arthur insists that Harry sit next to Arthur during meals where Molly , who constantly deplores the state of Arthur 's hand me down clothes and how thin Arthur is , insists that Arthur eat extra food .
During that period , Arthur and the George-Arthur-Ronald-Molly-Fred travel to Diagon Alley with Floo in order to get their school supplies .
Harry has difficulty with the smoke around Harry and says `` Diagon Alley '' unclearly , and thus Harry accidentally lands in a shop in the ill-reputed Knockturn Alley instead .
The shop is Borgin and Burkes , specialising in objects related to Dark magic .
There Harry sees Lucius , father of Draco , Harry 's arch rival from school , selling items imbued with Dark magic to a dark arts salesman , Borgin .
Lucius Draco explains that the Ministry has been conducting raids on wizard houses in order to uncover illegal artefacts , so he is selling his more problematic possessions .
He also expresses his disdain for a rumoured Muggle Protection Act , which he -LRB- rightly -RRB- assumes Arthur is behind .

Harry leaves the shop to be found by Rubeus and taken back to Diagon Alley to reunite with the Weasleys and Hermione , who is also there with her parents .
In Flourish and Blotts , he and George-Arthur-Ronald-Molly-Fred meet the famous wizard/author Gilderoy , who announces that he will be taking over as Hogwarts ' new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher .
He then forces Harry to have Harry 's picture taken with him for the main page of the '' Daily Prophet '' .
They also meet Lucius-Draco there .
The elder Draco continuously taunts and insults Arthur and Arthur 's family and eventually Arthur lunges at Arthur .
During the fight , Draco grabs one of the Weasleys ' second-hand books and after Rubeus breaks it up subsequently throws it back at Ginevra in contempt .

It is time to return to Hogwarts-Harry and George-Arthur-Ronald-Molly-Fred arrives at King 's Cross Station on Flying , after several delays -LRB- Fred and George forgetting their broomsticks , and Ginevra forgetting her diary . -RRB-
On the way to Hogwarts , when Harry-Ronald try to go through the barrier to Platform Nine and Three-Quarters after everyone else went through , the barrier is mysteriously sealed against Harry-Ronald .
Having missed the train , Harry-Ronald thus decide to fly Mr Weasley 's flying Flying to Hogwarts .
Harry-Ronald end up getting spotted by many Muggles and crash into the Whomping Willow , the impact breaking Ronald 's wand .
The giant tree starts pounding the car .
The battered car manages to escape , ejecting Harry , Ronald , and their luggage , before quickly driving off into the Forbidden Forest .

After they make it to the castle , Severus catches the boys and attempts to have them expelled for being sighted and breaking wizard law to get to the castle .
Albus however , says Severus will send a letter to Harry and Ronald 's families .
Still , Minerva gives a warning and separate detentions to both boys .
Minerva also tells them that Ginevra had been sorted into Gryffindor , providing them with Endless Sandwiches and disallowing them from attending the Start-of-Term Feast .

The next day , Ronald receives a Howler from Ronald 's Molly during breakfast in the Great Hall .
Then , Minerva hands out timetables and the first class is Herbology with the Hufflepuffs .
In the class , Professor Sprout teaches how to transplant Mandrake seedlings , which have restorative properties when mature .
The next class is Transfiguration , where Ronald has problems with Ronald 's broken wand , even when Ronald repaired it with some Spellotape .
Later , the trio have their first lesson with Gilderoy , appointed as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher .
Ronald way of teaching is a complete disaster .
Much to Harry 's chagrin , Ronald receives constant attention from Colin-Gilderoy , a first year student .
Both constantly interact with Ronald on the base of Ronald 's fame -LRB- Colin treats Harry as a celebrity and Gilderoy hopes to actually bring Ronald to that state -RRB- .

The Gryffindor Quidditch team has a very early practise on Saturday morning , where they are treated to an hour-long introduction to a new training programme Oliver spent the summer working on .
Soon after the actual practise starts , the Slytherin Quidditch team , with new Nimbus 2001 broomsticks , arrives , and an argument over field time ensues .
During the confrontation , Draco is revealed to be the new Slytherin seeker , and the one responsible for getting the Slytherin team new brooms .
Hermione says that nobody on their team had to buy his way in , they made it on pure talent to which Draco calls Hermione a Mudblood , for which the Gryffindor team react angrily and Ronald tries to curse him .
However , his damaged wand causes the curse to backfire and he is rushed to Rubeus 's cabin when he starts vomiting slugs .
Ronald-Rubeus both explain to Harry that Mudblood is a very insulting name for Muggle-Borns like Hermione .
Ronald-Rubeus also explain that there are some wizards like Lucius-Draco who think Ronald-Rubeus 're better than everyone else because Ronald-Rubeus 're Purebloods .
After Ronald-Rubeus return to the castle , Minerva assigns Harry-Ronald Ronald-Rubeus 's detentions .
Harry is made to help Gilderoy answer Harry 's fan mail , while Ronald polishes the school 's prizes and trophies .
During Harry Harry hears a disembodied sinister voice which Gilderoy is unable to hear .

In return for distracting Argus just when he 's about to give Harry severe punishment , Harry promises he will come to Nearly Headless Nick 's Deathday Party on Hallowe'en .
Harry brings Ronald-Hermione along as well .
While there , Ronald-Hermione meet Moaning Myrtle .
The three of them quickly get sickened by the ghostly party and return to the Great Hall .

Before they get to the Hallowe'en feast , Harry hears the voice -LRB- which Ronald-Hermione also can not hear -RRB- and follows it to the second floor , where Harry finds the bathroom flooded and Mrs , Argus 's cat , hanging from a torch bracket , petrified and coupled with a message on the wall , reading '' '' THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED .
ENEMIES OF THE HEIR , BEWARE '' '' .
Then , students leaving the Hallowe'en Feast surround them .
And Draco yells : `` Enemies of the Heir , beware !
You 'll be next , Mudbloods ! ''

Severus-Argus try to get Harry in trouble for what happened , but Albus says that it is

powerful dark magic that no second year student could perform .
They decide that Professor Sprout 's mandrakes will be used , once they are mature enough , to create a draught capable of reviving Mrs. Hermione wants to research the Chamber , so she persuades Cuthbert -LRB- the History of Magic teacher -RRB- into telling the class about it .
Cuthbert explains that one of the founders of Hogwarts-Salazar got into an argument with the others about whether Muggle-borns should be admitted .
When the rift grew too large , Cuthbert left the school .
According to legend , Cuthbert built a going-away present to the school in the form of a secret chamber that could only be opened by Cuthbert 's true heir .
This `` Chamber of Secrets '' contains a monster that only the Heir of Slytherin can control and that , once released , would purge the school of all Muggle-borns .
Cuthbert unsuccessfully tries to assure the class that the Chamber does not actually exist and that the school has been searched many times in vain .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione decide that the heir is probably Draco since everyone in his family have been sorted into Slytherin House , he 's a Pureblood supremacist , and because his father worked for Voldemort .
To try to confirm it , Hermione proposes to use Polyjuice Potion , which can change a person into somebody else for an hour .
After getting Gilderoy 's signature to check out the book Moste Potente Potions from the Restricted Section that has the recipe , Hermione warns them that the potion will take a month to brew , supposing they gather all the necessary ingredients -LRB- two of which can only be found in Severus 's private inventory -RRB- .
Since no one comes into Moaning Myrtle 's bathroom , the three of them decide it is the best place to brew the potion unnoticed .
Hermione begins working with the ingredients they have .

During the month that it takes the Polyjuice Potion to brew , a Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Slytherin takes place .
During the match , one of the Bludgers stakes after Harry and focuses completely on him .
Since Bludgers are supposed to attack each and every player , the crowd immediately realises that this Bludger has been tampered with .
Harry still manages to catch Golden and allow for Gryffindor to win thanks to the Slytherin Seeker Draco wasting his time insulting Harry and not paying attention to his surroundings where the Snitch was hovering slightly above his left ear .
However , prior to catching the Snitch , Bludger broke Harry 's arm , and Gilderoy , attempting to fix it , gets rid of all the bones in his arm instead .
Poppy gives Harry Skele-Gro potion to counter this and Harry is forced to stay in the Hospital Wing overnight .

During that night , Dobby visits Harry and reveals that it was he who made Bludger chase after Harry , and was also responsible for the barrier of Platform Nine and Three-Quarters not letting Harry in for in hopes of Harry leaving or never arriving at Hogwarts .
Harry also reveals that the Chamber of Secrets has been opened before and immediately punishes Harry , as Harry is not supposed to reveal anything .
After Dobby disappears , Minerva-Poppy-Albus enter with Colin , who has also been petrified .
Harry was found with a camera containing film that has been burnt to the melting point .
Albus just observes the camera saying , `` The Chamber of Secrets has indeed been opened again . ''

After Harry heads to Moaning Myrtle 's bathroom the next morning and explains the details he learned from Dobby , Hermione comes up with a plan of Harry-Ronald providing a distraction in Potions so Hermione can steal the remaining ingredients for the Polyjuice Potion from Severus 's private stores .
Shortly afterwards , when McGongall comes around with the sign-up list for the students who will remain in the school during Christmas , learning that Vincent-Gregory-Draco have signed up , Harry-Ronald-Hermione do this as well , since this gives Harry-Ronald-Hermione the perfect opportunity to use Harry-Ronald-Hermione 's Polyjuice Potion .
With Harry providing a distraction during Potions class by throwing a Filibuster firework into Gregory 's cauldron , it creates the necessary disturbance allowing Hermione to succeed without trouble , though Severus still suspects Harry 's involvement with this incident after finding the firework .
Harry later signs up for a Duelling Club which , to Harry 's great displeasure , is taught by his two least favourite teachers , Gilderoy and Severus .
During a practise battle in the first meeting , Draco conjures a snake to attack Harry .
Gilderoy tries to banish it , but all Gilderoy manages is to set it loose on the students .
Harry sees that the snake is advancing on a Hufflepuff student named Justin Finch-Fletchley and instinctively tells it to stop , which-to Harry 's great surprise-it does .
He expects Justin to be grateful Justin and the others are less than ecstatic about it .
All they saw was Harry speaking Parseltongue , the language of snakes , and since they can not understand it , it seemed to them that he was egging the snake on .
Harry learns that Parseltongue is a very rare gift that is closely associated with Salazar .
Due to this , Harry becomes the number one suspect among students for being the heir of Slytherin .
Hermione even tells him that since Salazar lived so long ago , Salazar might actually be a descendant .
When a Herbology lesson is cancelled , Harry has a talk with Rubeus , who reveals that the school 's roosters are being mysteriously killed .
Seconds after leaving Rubeus , Harry runs into a petrified Justin Finch-Fletchley and a black , also petrified , Nearly-Headless Nick .
Peeves alerts the whole school , and a Hufflepuff student called Ernest claims that Harry has been caught red-handed .

For the first time , Harry is taken to Albus 's office , and there Harry witnesses Fawkes -- Albus 's phoenix -- bursting into ashes and being reborn .
Albus says that Albus does not believe Harry to be behind the attacks , a belief reinforced by Rubeus backing Harry 's alibi , but a large portion of the school is now sure that Harry is Slytherin 's heir .
When Christmas arrives -LRB- Harry 's gifts : a toothpick , fudge in a tin , a copy of '' Flying with the Cannons '' , a new Quill , a jumper and plum cake -RRB- , with the Polyjuice Potion ready and Hermione having acquired some spare Slytherin robes to use -LRB- since they ca n't use their regular clothes while transformed -RRB- , they give to Vincent-Gregory two chocolate cakes containing `` sleeping pills '' that made both Vincent and Gregory fall asleep once eating the cakes .
Harry-Ronald take Harry-Ronald 's hairs -LRB- and shoes due to Vincent-Gregory having larger feet -RRB- and assume Harry-Ronald 's form .
Hermione tries to use a hair Hermione thought belongs to Millicent , but it is actually Hermione 's Cat and Hermione is transformed into a cat/human hybrid .
Hermione is forced to spend a few weeks in the Hospital Wing .
As Vincent-Gregory , once Draco leads them to the Slytherin common room , Harry-Ronald interrogate an unsuspecting Draco and discover that even though Draco wishes Draco were , Draco is not the Heir of Slytherin .
Harry-Ronald also hear that Lucius mentioned that the last time the chamber was opened , fifty years ago , a Muggle-born student died and whoever was responsible was expelled .
Draco also mentions Draco 's father 's secret stash of illegal artefacts .

Weeks later , Harry-Ronald-Argus complaining about Ronald 's workload and leaving .
Harry-Ronald-Argus arrive at Myrtle 's bathroom to find it flooded .
Myrtle , a sulking ghost , explains that Myrtle had flooded it because somebody flushed a diary down the toilet and onto Myrtle 's .
Harry picks it up ; Harry discovers that it once belonged to somebody called T.M. Riddle , but the diary is completely blank .
Ronald remembers from Ronald 's detention that Riddle had won an award for special service to the school fifty years before , as Ronald had another slug attack on the trophy .
Hermione deduces that since this coincides with the last time the Chamber was opened , Tom might have received Tom 's prize for catching whoever was responsible for the attacks back then .
Even though all attempts to extract information from the diary fail , Harry feels a strange compulsion to keep it .
On Ronald Harry-Ronald are dismayed to find out Gilderoy has spread dwarves dressed as cupids throughout the school to receive and deliver Valentines as a morale booster due to believing that he made the attacks stop .
One cupid-dwarf manages to deliver one -LRB- a singing valentine -RRB- to Harry .
While struggling to avoid Harry , the embarrassed Harry trips and falls , having ink spilled all over the contents of Harry 's bag .
Ginevra notices the diary and assumes a horrified expression .
Draco also tries to steal the diary as Harry is picking up Harry 's stuff , but an angered Harry stuns Harry , ignoring the fact that Percy Weasley was also there trying to handle the situation , which results in Percy reprimanding Harry .
Later , Harry realises that even though ink is spilled all over the diary , it is not stained at all .
Harry tries writing to the diary and , to his surprise , Riddle writes back .
Harry explains that Harry was the one who caught the person who opened the Chamber of Secrets the last time , and Harry can show Harry what happened .
Harry agrees and gets sucked into a `` recording '' of Riddle 's memory .
Transported back to 1943 , Harry witnesses the school 's previous headmaster , Armando , informing Riddle that the school will be closed , since now a Muggle-born girl has died .
Riddle is apprehensive of this , since it would mean getting sent back to the Muggle orphanage he grew up in and grown to hate .
Dippet guesses that Riddle is Muggle-born as well , but Riddle corrects him by revealing that he 's actually half-blood , having been left at the orphanage after Merope died , but not before requesting her son 's first name to be Tom , after Tom , and his middle name to be Marvolo , after his Marvolo .
When dismissed by Dippet and a 50-years-younger Albus , Harry follows Riddle down into the dungeons , where the latter young wizard catches a 50-years-younger Rubeus fiddling with a young Acromantula in a cupboard .
Accusing the giant of harbouring the monster behind the death of the Muggle-born girl in question , Riddle reports Rubeus to Dippet despite Rubeus protest that that Rubeus 's Acromantula , who Rubeus has seemingly named Aragog , has never killed anyone .
Having seen this , Harry now believes Rubeus was the one who opened the Chamber fifty years before and Harry is responsible this time .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione decide not to ask Rubeus about it , hoping that the attacks have stopped-and indeed , almost four months after the attack on Justin and Nearly-Headless Nick , the disembodied voice keeps quiet and the attacks seem to have ceased .
However , odd things keep happening : Harry returns to Harry 's dormitory one day to find it a mess .
Ronald deduces that somebody has been looking for something , and Harry eventually notices that Tom 's Diary is gone .
This greatly befuddles Harry-Ronald-Hermione , knowing that only a Gryffindor student or a staff member could know the password to enter the dormitory .
The next day , the scheduled Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff is cancelled due to yet another attack and Harry hears the voice again .
This time Minerva calls for Harry-Ronald personally , and leads Harry-Ronald-Hermione to the Hospital Wing , where Harry-Ronald-Hermione see Hermione petrified .
Hermione was found near the library with a Ravenclaw prefect , holding a small , circular mirror .
This proves that Harry is not Tom , since Harry would never attack one of his friends .
Harry-Ronald decide Harry-Ronald-Hermione now must talk to Rubeus .
With the now constant supervision on students , this is not easy , but Harry-Ronald-Hermione manage to do it by using Harry 's Invisibility cloak .
When Harry-Ronald-Hermione reach Rubeus 's cabin Harry-Ronald manage to hide just before Cornelius , who is the Minister for Magic , and Albus arrive at the scene .
Fudge announces that Rubeus , who to the best of his knowledge opened the Chamber of Secrets the last time , will be sent to Azkaban prison as a precaution .
They are shortly joined by Lucius , who declares that he and the other governors of Hogwarts have unanimously voted to suspend Albus , despite the obvious logic that this would only worsen the situation .
Both Rubeus and Albus give last words to Harry-Ronald : Rubeus says that if anybody wants the truth Harry-Ronald-Hermione should `` follow the spiders '' and Albus says that Albus will only truly have left the school when none there remain loyal to Albus .
Albus also stresses that if anybody at Hogwarts needs help , it will always be available to those who ask for it .

Days later , Minerva informs the students that the Mandrake Drought will soon be ready .
Later that same day , Harry-Ronald manage to trick Gilderoy - who is leading Harry-Ronald to Harry-Ronald 's next class - into letting Harry-Ronald go by stroking his ego .
Just as Harry-Ronald pat Harry-Ronald on the back , Harry-Ronald get caught by Minerva , and Harry has to make up an excuse - Harry-Ronald were going to see Hermione in the Hospital Wing , where visitors were now barred .
Harry-Ronald now have to go along to make Harry-Ronald 's story appear convincing , but rather than simply hanging around Hermione 's petrified form , this time Harry notices a piece of paper tightly clutched in her hand .
This piece of paper reveals what Hermione had found out before she was attacked .
She had discovered , based on strong circumstantial evidence , that the monster in the Chamber of Secrets is a Basilisk , one of the giant `` Kings of all Serpents '' , thus explaining the mysterious voice that only Harry could hear , as he is able to speak Parseltongue .
The Basilisk kills people by looking it in the eye , but no one died because nobody had directly looked at its deadly gaze : Colin saw it through his camera , Justin Finch-Fletchley saw it through Nearly-Headless Nick -LRB- who was already dead and since Colin could n't die `` again '' , Colin was only petrified -RRB- , Mrs saw a reflection of it in the waters of the flooded bathroom , and both Hermione and Penelope used a mirror to look around corners after Hermione has figured things out .
Harry finds out in the paper that spiders flee from it and how a rooster 's crow is potentially fatal to the Basilisk -LRB- which explains Rubeus 's roosters having been killed during the year -RRB- .
On the note is also scribbled a single word , `` pipes '' , which means that the serpent moves around through the plumbing -LRB- which helps them realise that the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets is in Myrtle 's bathroom -RRB- .
Having solved the mystery , Harry-Ronald decide to go to the staff room and report to the teachers .
When they get there , they overhear the teachers talking about another attack having occurred .
Harry-Ronald decide to hide to hear more details , and learn that Ginevra has been kidnapped by the Basilisk itself and the Tom has left another message under the previous one : '' '' HER SKELETON WILL LIE IN THE CHAMBER FOREVER '' . ''
Harry-Ronald also hear that Hogwarts will be closed tomorrow .
The teachers then force Gilderoy to deal with the monster , as Gilderoy has been claiming Gilderoy could handle whatever is responsible for the attacks .
Looking very crestfallen , he leaves for his room .
Harry-Ronald decide that if Gilderoy is going to deal with the monster Harry-Ronald might as well tell Gilderoy what Harry-Ronald know .
Harry-Ronald go to Gilderoy 's room , only to find Gilderoy frantically planning to run away .
When questioned on why such a talented wizard as Gilderoy is leaving , Gilderoy admits that Gilderoy is a fraud who put Memory Charms on the people who really did the things that Gilderoy claimed to have done in Gilderoy 's books .
Gilderoy then attempts to put a Memory Charm on the two boys as well , but they manage to disarm Gilderoy and , under Wand threats , take Gilderoy to Myrtle 's bathroom .

Myrtle explains Myrtle 's death , saying the last thing Myrtle saw was a pair of enormous eyes by one of the sinks , the tap of which has never worked .
Harry finds a snake carved on the tap and then opens the entrance to the Chamber of Secrets by speaking Parseltongue to it .
Harry-Ronald-Gilderoy slide down a large pipe and find Harry-Ronald-Gilderoy in maze-like tunnels far under the school .
Down there , Harry-Ronald-Gilderoy encounter a snake skin left by the Basilisk .
Just then , Gilderoy feigns fainting and Gilderoy steals Ronald 's wand .
Victoriously proclaiming that Gilderoy will erase Harry and Ronald 's memories and tell everybody they lost their sanity at the sight of Gilderoy casts the Memory Charm .
Ronald 's broken wand causes the charm to backfire , erasing Gilderoy 's memory and causing a portion of the ceiling to cave in .
This traps Harry in the direction of the chamber and Ronald in the direction of the castle .
Ronald has no choice but to stay behind and clear a path through the rocks while Harry continues in search of Ginevra .
Harry then encounters a wall with stone snakes on it , opens it by speaking Parseltongue and enters the Chamber itself .

The diary ends up with Ginevra .
Riddle had written back sympathetically and Ginevra grew to confess her fears , hopes and feelings to him .
She essentially poured some of her soul into him , which was exactly what he wanted .
He gradually grew more powerful and eventually managed to pour some of his soul back into her , possessing her and using her body to open the Chamber of Secrets , releasing the Basilisk that launched the new series of attacks and to write the threatening messages on the walls .
However , Ginevra became suspicious of the diary and tried to dispose of it by flushing it down the toilet in Myrtle 's bathroom .
This is when Harry found it .
When Ginevra saw Harry with the diary on Valentine 's Day , she panicked and worried that Riddle had told Harry about her role in the attacks , so she stole it back from his dormitory .
It began taking control of her again , but this time with the intention of killing Harry , so he had Ginevra write her own farewell on the wall and come down to wait , luring Harry to the rescue and , consequently , Harry 's doom .
Riddle is angered that Harry managed to defeat the Dark Wizard Tom as a mere baby .
When Harry asks Riddle why Harry cares about it , Riddle reveals that `` Tom is his past , present and future . ''
He then writes the air with Harry 's wand his full name , '' Tom '' , then waves Wand and the letters rearrange themselves into , '' I AM Tom . ''

Harry then realises that Tom was only a pseudonym and that Harry 's real/birth name was Tom .
Riddle explains that Harry could n't bare to use the name of Tom who abandoned Harry before Harry 's wizard son could be born , right when Harry found out that Merope was a witch descended from Salazar .
So Harry scrambled that name to create a new one , which Harry knew people would fear when Harry became the `` greatest sorcerer in the world '' .
Harry retorts that Harry must be mistaken , because the greatest sorcerer in the world , as everybody knows , is Albus .
Even when Tom was at the peak of Tom 's power Tom was afraid of Albus , and now Tom is barely alive .
Riddle replies that Albus has been driven out the castle by the mere memory of Albus .
Harry yells that Albus is not as gone as Riddle seems to believe .
In this display of loyalty Harry summons Fawkes the phoenix to him , who also brings with it Sorting , both assets that Riddle deems extremely useless .

Riddle then summons the Basilisk and commands it to kill Harry .
However , Fawkes is n't as defenceless as one might initially think , and pecks out the Basilisk 's eyes , thus preventing its gaze from killing .
The basilisk can still hear and smell Harry , however , and remains very dangerous , so Harry , in desperation , puts on Sorting , wishing against hope for help .
Instead of an answer , Harry has a heavy sword with a hilt embedded with rubies fall on Harry 's head from inside Sorting .
After several missed strikes from the blinded Basilisk , it strikes again , right at Harry this time but Harry plunges the sword into the roof of the Basilisk 's mouth , killing it .
However , one of its poisonous fangs sinks into his arm , injecting a deadly poison .
While Riddle gloats over his `` win '' , Harry takes Riddle 's diary and plunges the Basilisk fang into the diary .
Ink begins pouring out of the book like blood as Riddle 's memory is destroyed .
Ginevra immediately stirs and wakes up .
Harry is now moments from death , when Fawkes cries on the wound , and since phoenix tears have incredible healing properties , Harry is instantly cured .
Harry-Ginevra travel back through the Chamber to find Ronald-Gilderoy , who has no idea of who or where Harry is .
Harry-Ronald-Ginevra-Gilderoy grab onto Fawkes and fly up the tunnel , out of the Chamber -LRB- another phoenix specialty , as Harry-Ronald-Ginevra-Gilderoy can lift very heavy loads -RRB- .
Harry-Ronald-Ginevra-Gilderoy return up to the Myrtle 's bathroom , where the Entrance seals shut again , and head to Minerva 's office .

At Harry Harry-Ronald-Ginevra find Minerva-Albus-Arthur-Molly , who are delighted to see Harry-Ronald-Ginevra alive .
Harry worries that Ginevra will get blamed for being the person behind the attacks , but to Harry 's great relief Albus rightly deduces that Tom is the culprit and only used Ginevra 's body .
After Ginevra leaves to get a much-needed rest , Harry-Ronald both receive two hundred house points each for Gryffindor and both get an Award for special services to the school , and then Albus asks to speak with Harry alone .
Harry expresses Harry 's concern that Harry belonged in Slytherin .
Albus reveals that Tom transferred some of Tom 's powers to Harry when Tom gave Tom Tom 's scar , explaining Tom 's ability to speak Parseltongue .
Tom asks Harry why Tom thinks Sorting put Tom in Gryffindor if Tom has so many Slytherin qualities , and Harry admits that the only reason it did was because Harry had asked it to .
Albus confirms this and tells Harry that `` it is our choices , rather than our abilities , that reveal who we truly are '' .
Harry points out to the sword Harry had drawn out of Sorting - Harry now notices it has Godric 's name on it .
Albus says that only a true Gryffindor would be able to draw it out .

Lucius then barges into Minerva 's office , outraged that Albus has returned to the school after being dismissed .
Albus calmly responds that the governors had asked Lucius to return once they heard that Arthur 's daughter was attacked .
Apparently they had been blackmailed by Draco to vote for Albus 's dismissal in the first place under Draco 's threat of cursing their families .
Dobby follows Lucius into the room , thus showing that Lucius 's masters are Draco .
Albus-Draco have a calm but venomous interchange -LRB- respectively -RRB- , during which Albus and Harry -LRB- with the help of Dobby 's unspoken hints -RRB- essentially expose Lucius sneaking Riddle 's diary -LRB- one of his illegal artefacts -RRB- into Ginevra 's school things during the fight with Arthur at Flourish and Blotts .
This is supposed to frame Ginevra for the attacks , with heavy implications on the Muggle Protection Act Arthur has been suggesting .
Draco dares Albus to prove Draco 's accusation , and while the Headmaster has insufficient evidence to do that , Draco cautions Draco against orchestrating any further such plots , otherwise Draco is certain that Arthur would do whatever it took to trace it back to Draco .

Knowing that a master can release his house-elf by giving them some clothes , Harry tricks Draco into freeing Dobby by giving Draco one of his own socks , which Harry promptly throws away to be caught by Dobby .
Draco 's retribution is thwarted by the now free Dobby , who then thanks Harry profusely and disappears .
The petrified people are cured , Rubeus is released from Azkaban , Gilderoy is sent to a hospital and Lucius Draco is fired from his post as school governor .
The book ends with Harry at King 's Cross , crossing the barrier back to the Muggle world .

