Narcissa and Narcissa 's sister Bellatrix visit Severus at Spinner 's End , a poverty-stricken neighbourhood in a northern mill town .
Narcissa wants Severus to help Narcissa 's protect Draco , who has been made a Death Eater and has been assigned a mission by Tom himself .
Bellatrix advises against this , distrusting Severus for not taking part in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries at the Ministry of Magic , and for his many suspicious actions through the years which make Narcissa 's doubt whether Severus is actually on their side .
Severus explains his behaviour : He was at Hogwarts when Tom fell to be a spy for him , he did n't seek him out for the same reason Narcissa 's brother in law and the other deserters did n't look for him , he stopped Tom from getting the Philosopher 's Stone because he thought Quirrell wanted it for himself , he never tried to kill Harry Potter because Dumbledore would know about it , and he did n't take part in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries because Tom ordered him to stay at Hogwarts .
Severus also tells Narcissa that he knows about Draco 's mission .
Bellatrix tells Bellatrix 's sister Bellatrix should be proud but Narcissa believes that Tom is sending Tom on a suicide mission as punishment for Bellatrix 's husband 's failure .
Severus offers to help Draco .
Narcissa asks him to make an Unbreakable Vow and he agrees .
With Bellatrix as their Bonder , Narcissa asks Severus to agree to the following terms :

#That he watch over Draco while he attempts to carry out his mission as a Death Eater .

#That he protect him and make sure he comes to no harm .

#That he do the job for Draco if he proves unable to do it himself .

Severus agrees to all three terms and the vow is made .

Albus comes to visit Harry at 4 Privet Drive to take Albus to The Burrow , where Albus would spend the rest of Albus 's summer holidays .
Albus reads Sirius 's will : Harry inherits Harry 's deceased godfather 's wealth , the The house at 12 Grimmauld Place , which Harry lets the Order of the Phoenix continue to use as headquarters , and the House-elf Kreacher , whom Harry sends to work at the Hogwarts kitchens .
Albus then chastises Dursley for their neglect and mistreatment of Harry but asks that he be allowed to return to Privet Drive one final time , and he and Harry depart .

Harry notices Albus has received a serious injury to Harry 's right hand , but the Headmaster dismisses it as unimportant .
Albus then asks Harry 's help in convincing an old Hogwarts teacher , Horace Slughorn , to come out of retirement .
They pay him a visit , but Slughorn is reluctant to return to the school , fearing it may put his life in danger from Death Eaters .
Harry tells Harry that no teachers have died since Albus became Headmaster , except Quirinus , who was working for Tom .
This dubious comfort , and the opportunity to get Harry to join Harry 's Slug Club , persuades Slughorn to return to Hogwarts .
Albus then drops Harry off at The Burrow , praising Harry for the way Harry has handled Harry 's godfather 's untimely death and reveals that Harry would take private classes for Harry in the forthcoming academic year .

Harry is warmly received at The Burrow by the Weasley , who offer Harry Fred and George 's bedroom to sleep in .
Harry meets Harry 's best friends Ronald-Hermione and Ronald 's younger sister Ginevra the following morning .
Ronald also meets -LSB- -LSB- Triwizard Tournament # 1994 Triwizard Tournament | Triwizard Champion -RSB- -RSB- Fleur , who is now working at Gringotts and is engaged to Ronald 's oldest brother William , which is not liked by Hermione , Ginevra , and Fleur-Ronald-William -LRB- except Ronald -RRB- .
Later in the day , the trio receive their O.W.L. results ; Harry-Ronald receive 7 O.W.L.s while Hermione receives 10 .
However , Harry is slightly disappointed as Harry has only achieved ` Exceeds Expectations ' in Potions , meaning Harry can no longer realise Harry 's ambition as an Auror as Severus only takes students who have achieved ` Outstanding ' into Harry 's N.E.W.T. Potions class .

On the Hogwarts Express , Harry meets Harry 's other friends Neville-Luna and shares a compartment with Neville-Luna , as Ronald-Hermione are in the Prefect Carriage .
By now , Harry finds Harry attracted to Ginevra , although Ginevra appears to have long given up on Ginevra 's crush on Harry and is currently dating Harry 's classmate Dean Thomas .
Harry-Neville are invited for lunch to Slughorn 's compartment on the train along with Ginevra and some other students with connections to well known or influential people .
Before reaching Hogsmeade station , Harry enters Draco 's compartment using Harry 's Invisibility cloak to prove Harry 's suspicions about Draco .
Harry suspicions are proved correct : Draco tells Draco 's friends Vincent , Gregory , Pansy Parkinson and Blaise Zabini that Harry has become a Death Eater and Harry may not return to Hogwarts for Harry 's final year if the mission Harry was assigned by Tom is successful .
Unfortunately for Harry , Draco notices Harry spying on Harry and once Harry 's friends have alighted from the train , Harry paralyses Harry , breaks Harry 's nose , covers Harry with the Invisibility Cloak and leaves Harry on the train .

Harry-Ronald take up Charms , Defence Against the Dark Arts , Herbology , Potions and Transfiguration as Harry-Ronald 's N.E.W.T. subjects .
During the first Defence Against the Arts class of the year , Harry receives a detention from Severus as Harry had talked back to Harry following Severus trying to use Harry as a guinea pig to show how a nonverbal spell works .
Later that day , Harry-Ronald attend Potions , where Harry-Ronald receive old copies of '' Advanced Potion Making '' from Slughorn as Harry-Ronald did not buy the book .
Harry 's book , previously owned by someone named '' The Half-Blood Prince '' , contains a large number of shortcuts on making various potions , which prove useful in brewing the Draught of Living Death .
To everyone 's surprise , Harry 's potion is adjudged the best by Slughorn and is awarded a bottle of Felix Felicis as a prize .
When Harry tells Ronald and Hermione about the book , Ginevra overhears them and angrily confronts Harry about following the directions of this mysterious book in fear that it may be cursed like Tom 's diary .
A jealous Hermione then tries various spells to reveal the true nature of the book , but the book proves to be a normal one , allaying Ginevra and Hermione 's fears .

Harry , the new Gryffindor Quidditch Captain , holds trials to select the team for the annual Quidditch Cup .
Due to Harry 's popularity , it proves to be extremely taxing and difficult , with even first-years , Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs turning up for the trials .
In the end , Harry selects a team which includes among others , seventh-year Katie Bell , the only member remaining from the Quidditch team Harry joined in Ginevra , who returned as a chaser , and Ronald , who returned to Harry 's position as Keeper , staving off competition from another seventh-year and Slug Club member Cormac McLaggen .
Later Harry , Ronald and Hermione go visit Hagrid , who is upset at them as they had dropped Harry 's subject , Care of Magical Creatures .
After lying to Hagrid that they had dropped Care of Magical Creatures as they could not fit it into their timetables , Hagrid reconciles with them .
When the trio return to the Great Hall for dinner , Harry finds out that Hermione had used the Confundus Charm on McLaggen so that Ronald would become Keeper , but Ronald does not tell Ronald this .
Slughorn then invites Harry and Hermione for dinner with the other Slug Club members in Ronald 's office , which Harry declines as Ronald has to do Ronald 's detention with Severus .

Harry finds a couple of spells scribbled on the Half-Blood Prince 's textbook .
Harry tries one of them -LRB- '' Levicorpus '' -RRB- in Harry 's dormitory , but points Harry 's wand at Ronald by mistake , as a result of which Ronald hangs by Ronald 's ankle from the ceiling .
Later that day , Harry-Ronald-Hermione go to Hogsmeade , where Harry-Ronald-Hermione witness Katie being cursed after touching a strange necklace .
Remembering seeing the same necklace in Harry voices Harry 's suspicions of Draco to Minerva , but Minerva , like Ronald-Hermione , rubbishes Harry 's theory , stating that Draco did not go to Hogsmeade as Harry had a detention with Minerva , and that there is no proof that Harry bought the necklace .

In his second lesson with Albus , Harry first sees Caractacus talking about a locket of Salazar 's that a pregnant and desperate Merope had sold Salazar , Riddle having abandoned her when she stopped giving Salazar Love Potion , then goes into a memory of Albus 's to the orphanage that Riddle had grown up in .
Harry learns that Merope had later died in childbirth , and that even at an early age , Riddle had developed Harry 's powers , which Harry used to punish people who annoyed Harry and had a sadistic , cruel and independent nature , just like the adult Tom .
Albus also reveals to Harry that Tom likes to collect trophies .

During a Herbology lesson , Ronald expresses Ronald 's jealousy of not being invited to Slughorn 's upcoming Christmas party , to the point of teasing Hermione about it .
When she tells Ronald that she was planning to invite Ronald , however , Ronald 's attitude changes , and they begin to show signs of attraction to each other .
Harry is unsure how Harry feels about this , remembering Harry 's unsuccessful relationship with Cho Chang during Harry 's fifth year .
With Katie unable to play , Harry recruits Dean Thomas onto the Quidditch team , which continues to improve .
On their way back from practise however , Harry-Ronald come across Ginevra kissing behind a tapestry .
Harry feels a huge surge of jealousy toward Dean , while Ronald-Ginevra have a heated argument .
Ronald states that Ronald does n't want to see Ronald 's sister `` snogging '' -LRB- kissing -RRB- people in public , while Ginevra tells Ronald that her love life is none of Ronald 's business , and that Ronald 's only upset because Ronald 's never kissed anyone , referencing Harry and Cho 's relationship and revealing that Hermione had once kissed Viktor Krum .
This piece of information wrecks Ronald 's relationship with Hermione , as well as Ronald 's Quidditch skills , and badly alters Ronald 's personality .
Harry meanwhile tries to convince Harry that Harry 's feelings for Ginevra are entirely elder brotherly , but eventually realises that he has fallen in love with her.To improve Ronald 's Quidditch and mend Ronald 's friendship with Hermione , Harry pretends to slip Ronald some Felix Felicis on the day of the match between Gryffindor and Slytherin .
Feeling lucky , Ronald goes on to save everything the Slytherin chasers throw at Ronald , and Gryffindor hammers Slytherin .
However , the plan backfires .
After the match , Ronald accuses Hermione of not having faith in Ronald 's Quidditch abilities , because she thought Ronald really had taken lucky potion , and starts going out with Lavender Brown to spite her .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Phineas Nigellus | I ca n't see why the boy should be able to do it better than you , Albus .
| Albus | I would n't expect you to , Phineas .
| Phineas Nigellus about Albus 's mission to Harry . -RCB- -RCB-

On their return to Hogwarts , Harry notices Ginevra is not enthusiastic about meeting Dean , and tells Hermione about what he heard between Severus-Draco , but Ginevra also believes Severus was working on Albus 's orders .
When Harry mentions Fenrir Greyback , a werewolf Lupin had told Harry about during the holidays and the werewolf that bit Harry , Ginevra recalls Draco threatening Borgin with Harry , and Harry states that this proves Draco 's a Death Eater .
Hermione , however , got past this one , saying that it might have been `` an empty threat . ''
In Harry 's third lesson with Albus , Harry learns that during Harry 's time at Hogwarts , Tom had gathered a mixture of friends who became the forerunners of the Death Eaters , and researched Harry 's family .
Harry first investigated Harry 's father , and later assumed the name Tom upon discovering Harry 's father was a Muggle and never attended Hogwarts .
Albus-Harry then go into Morfin 's memory , where Harry reveals to Tom how Harry was conceived .
After hearing this , Tom went on to murder Tom 's Muggle ancestors , taking revenge on them for abandoning Tom , eliminating the last of the `` unworthy '' Riddle line , stealing Morfin 's father 's ring and implanted false memories into Morfin , framing Tom for the murders .
In the next memory , Tom asks Slughorn about Horcruxes , which results in Slughorn yelling that Tom knows nothing about them .
Albus is confident that the memory has been tampered with , however , noting patches of grey fog that came up when Slughorn was shouting , and asks Harry to retrieve the true memory .
Realising Harry is on to Harry after a botched attempt from Harry to get the memory , Slughorn starts avoiding Harry , and Harry instead chooses to focus on investigating Draco , using the Marauder 's Map , noticing that Draco disappears off it at certain times .

Ronald reconciles with Hermione-Ginevra .
Some time afterwards , Rubeus tells Harry that Harry overheard Albus and Severus arguing , and Cormac McLaggen confronts Harry to ensure Harry can play in Ronald 's place in the upcoming Quidditch match .
Harry also finds out that Ronald has been avoiding Lavender .
Later , at the Quidditch match , with Luna commentating , McLaggen grabs a beater 's bat to show the beater how to hit the bludgers , and accidentally cracks Harry 's skull .
Finally , in the hospital wing , Harry summons Kreacher and Dobby and orders them to tail Draco .

In Albus is disappointed that Harry failed to obtain Slughorn 's true memory .
Albus shows Harry two memories : one of Tom being shown Salazar 's Locket and Helga Hufflepuff 's Cup by a wealthy woman named Hepzibah Smith -LRB- Salazar later stole both artefacts -RRB- , the other of Riddle applying for the Defence Against the Dark Arts teaching post at Hogwarts , which Albus rejects as Albus felt that it was an attempt by Riddle to further search the school for secrets and recruit followers .
This post was thenceforth jinxed by Riddle ; teachers never held the post for more than a year , suffering some terrible fate or humiliation which caused them to leave the position .

The Unknowable Room Picture -RSB- -RSB- Ronald wants to break up with Lavender but does n't know now .
Harry learns from Kreacher and Dobby that Draco is regularly visiting the Room of Requirement -LRB- which does n't appear on the Marauder 's Map -RRB- , and spends the next few days trying to get inside .
Not knowing what Draco is using it for , Draco has no success .
Ronald-Hermione come back from the Hogsmeade Apparition test , in which Hermione is successful but not Ronald , who will take the exam with Harry again .

It turns out that in reality , Slughorn told Riddle everything he wanted to know about Horcruxes , how they were objects that a person can conceal a part of his or her soul in .
This explains how Tom was able to survive Tom 's rebounding killing curse .
Albus believed that Tom made six Horcruxes : Albus 's diary -LRB- which Harry destroyed four years earlier -RRB- , the Gaunt 's Ring -LRB- which Albus destroyed the previous year , greatly injuring Tom 's hand in the process -RRB- , the locket , the cup , an object pertaining to Rowena Ravenclaw 's and the snake Nagini .

Harry learns the next day that Ginevra have split up .
He is unwilling to ask her out though , fearing Ronald 's reaction .
Meanwhile , a recovered Katie Bell has returned to the school , and Harry asks who gave her the necklace .
She states that someone Imperiused her in the girl 's bathroom at Rosmerta 's Pub in Hogsmeade .
Shortly before the final Quidditch match of the year , Harry finds Draco crying over how his mission is failing .
When he sees Harry , he attacks him .
During the ensuing duel , Harry uses a spell written in The Half Blood Prince 's book , which badly injures Draco .
Severus witnesses the event , heals Draco , and gives Harry a large number of detentions that cause him to miss the match .
Upon returning to the Gryffindor common room after his first detention , he discovers that the team had won the Quidditch Cup in his absence , and Ginevra runs up and hugs him .
At this point , Harry finally reveals his feelings for Ginevra and kisses Ginevra 's .
Both of them are ecstatic and start dating .

Some time later , Albus asks Harry to come to his office .
On the way , he runs into his old Divination teacher Professor Trelawney , who was trying to hide sherry bottles in the Room of Requirement before being thrown out .
She tells Harry that she heard a male voice -LRB- which Harry suspects to be Draco 's -RRB- whooping before she was ejected , and also reveals that Severus had told Tom about the prophecy concerning Severus and Harry , which caused Severus to murder Harry 's parents .
Harry expresses outrage that Albus later gave Severus a job at Hogwarts , but Albus states that Severus felt great remorse for what Severus had done .
Severus then asks Harry to join Severus in finding a Horcrux , Slytherin 's locket , which Harry agrees to .
Before leaving , Harry tells Ronald and Hermione that Draco 's almost certainly going to try something tonight , and gives them the remainder of the Felix Felicis .

Albus and Harry travel to a cave in which Tom had tormented two children in Tom 's youth .
They proceed through the cave , coming to an island in the middle of a lake .
On the island , they find a basin of emerald green potion , with the locket at the bottom .
On Albus 's orders , Harry reluctantly force-feeds Harry the potion , which badly weakens Harry and causes extreme thirst .
In an attempt to save Harry , Harry gives Harry water from the lake , awakening dozens of Inferi Tom had placed to guard Harry 's Horcrux .
Harry attempts to fight , but there are too many of them .
Just as Harry is about to be overwhelmed , Albus creates a ring of fire around them , which fends off the Inferi , and allows them to escape with the locket to Hogsmeade , where they discover the Dark Mark above the astronomy tower at Hogwarts .

Borrowing broomsticks , the pair fly to the tower .
Upon hearing someone approaching them , Albus uses a charm to paralyse Harry and hides Harry under Harry 's invisibility cloak , before being disarmed by Draco .
Draco reveals that Draco had let Death Eaters into the school through a pair of vanishing cabinets , which were the objects Harry had overheard Harry questioning Borgin about .
Draco also explains that Draco was behind the cursed necklace and poisoned mead incidents , which were really assassination attempts on Albus .
Albus reveals that Draco had known Draco was attempting to kill Albus , but allowed Albus to remain at Hogwarts because Albus knew that Tom would have murdered Draco once Draco 's cover had been blown .
Albus tries to persuade Draco to change sides , but the other Death Eaters join the scene and urge Draco to finish Draco 's mission .
Then Severus appears , and with Draco still reluctant to finish off the unarmed Albus , Severus kills Albus .

Released from the spell after Harry pursues Severus through battle in the halls of the school and out onto the grounds .
Near the entrance to Hogwarts , Harry attempts to curse Severus , who repels Harry 's attacks with ease and reminds the other Death Eaters they are not to harm the boy .
When Harry tries one of the Half-Blood Prince 's spells , an enraged Severus reveals that the spell is his own .
He is the Half-Blood Prince , having taken the title when he was a student as a pun on his mother 's maiden name .
-LRB- Hermione 's research later reveals that Severus 's father was a Muggle named Tobias and his mother a pureblood witch named Eileen . -RRB-
Buckbeak the Hippogriff attacks Severus , who leaves Harry behind and escapes with Draco .
When Harry returns to Harry finds that the locket was a fake : the real horcrux was already stolen by Regulus

After the battle , Ginevra accompanies Harry to the hospital wing , where he learns that the only other person who died was a Death Eater .
None of Harry 's friends are badly hurt , apart from William , Fleur-Ronald-William 's oldest child who was attacked by an untransformed Greyback , although the only side effects are permanent scars across his face and a liking for rare steaks .
Fleur expresses Fleur 's desire to marry Bill despite his potential transformations , and Fleur and Mrs Weasley reconcile .
Nymphadora reveals Fleur 's love for Remus , who had refused Fleur 's because he was a werewolf and felt that Fleur deserved someone young and whole , unlike himself .
Fleur questions Harry about what he and Albus were doing , but Harry , under orders from Albus not to tell anyone except Ronald-Hermione , refuses .
The teachers then discuss the future of Hogwarts , and plans for Albus 's funeral .
Harry turns Harry 's back on the Half-Blood Prince 's book , and regrets ever possessing it , although Hermione and Ronald comfort Harry , stating that while the Prince may have had a mean sense of humour , nothing in the book ever indicated that he was evil , or capable of murder .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Rufus Scrimgeour | I see you are -- | Harry | Albus 's man through and through .
That 's right .
| Harry to Scrimgeour . -RCB- -RCB-

The funeral is attended by many witches and wizards , including a number of minor characters in the series .
During the funeral , Harry ends Harry 's relationship with Ginevra to protect Ginevra 's from Tom .
Ginevra reveals that Ginevra had never given up on him ; Hermione had advised Ginevra 's to go out with other people so Ginevra could relax around Harry , as previously Ginevra had trouble talking to him .
As a result , he fell in love with Ginevra 's upon seeing who Ginevra really was , and regrets not asking Ginevra out sooner .
Harry then meets Scrimgeour , who again makes the offer Harry 'd made to Harry at Christmas , which Harry again turns down .
Harry then tells Ronald and Hermione of Ronald 's intention to leave Hogwarts to destroy the Horcruxes and then Tom himself .
His two best friends agree to travel with him on his quest , and Harry happily acknowledges that there is `` still one last golden day of peace left to enjoy with Ronald-Hermione '' .

