Thomas-Mary , with Tom , have been considered the most unpopular people occupying the Riddle House , located on a hill overlooking the Yorkshire County village of Little Hangleton , many decades ago .
Thomas was a snobbish squire who had the worst attitude that nobody wanted in a village leader , while Mary did retailing for Lady Margaret Nurseries branch of the British Association of Garden Centres .
Referred to as `` white trash '' by most of the village , Thomas-Tom-Mary have looked down on the most poverty-stricken families in the village for generations and sneered at anything disturbing for Thomas-Tom-Mary 's peace , for Thomas-Tom-Mary did n't hold such nonsense in Thomas-Tom-Mary 's daily lives .
The story begins in August of 1943 , where an absurd tragedy happened inside the house that nobody is able to find out how it happened .
When Thomas-Tom-Mary 's maid goes to work that day , she discovers Thomas-Tom-Mary dead in the drawing room , `` still in Thomas-Tom-Mary 's dinner things '' .
The police find no evidence of any kind of murder or suicide , claiming to be in perfect health condition except for the fact that they were dead .
They arrest Thomas-Tom-Mary 's gardener Frank Bryce for questioning , since the door and windows was never forced open or shattered on the night of their murder , and Thomas-Tom-Mary 's cook testified that he was the only one with a key to the house .
Frank , however , said the only person he saw that night was a Tom , and was released due to lack of evidence , but many still believed he committed the murders .

Half a century later on the night of 16 August , 1994 , an elderly Frank is still working as the groundskeeper at the Riddle house .
He sees a fire flickering in one of the rooms and goes over to investigate , thinking it is a couple boys who regularly disturb him .
Inside , he overhears the same boy he saw on the night of Thomas-Tom-Mary 's murder , now grown up as Tom -LRB- who , still unknown to him , was Tom Snr 's unwanted son -RRB- , and his servant Peter Pettigrew planning to capture Harry with the aid of Bartemius .
Tom , Frank learns , also plans to reward Pettigrew for his help in capturing Bertha Jorkins , a Ministry of Magic employee who Tom extracted information from before killing .
Frank is then discovered by Tom 's snake Nagini , who reports his presence to her master via Parseltongue .
When Pettigrew beckons him in as a guest , Frank stands up to Tom , who is unpleased that Muggles like the elderly gardener would be spying on him .
Frank does n't know what a Muggle is , and despite being offended that Tom called him one when it is explained that term means he 's not a wizard , he is still determined to inform the police about the intruders ' plot but horrified upon seeing Tom 's weak form .
Tom then casts the -LSB- -LSB- Avada Kedavra curse | '' Avada Kedavra '' curse -RSB- -RSB- , ending Frank 's life before the book can describe what Tom looks like .
Simultaneously , about 200 miles away in the Surrey County town of Little Whinging , Harry wakes up from a nightmare at the Dursley 's house on Privet Drive .

The experience is shown to be a dream that Harry had and Harry wakes up with Harry 's scar hurting .
Harry considers writing to Harry 's best friends Ronald-Hermione , as well as the Hogwarts Headmaster , Albus , but eventually decides to write a letter to Harry 's godfather Sirius , an escaped convict .
Sirius was actually framed for Harry 's crimes by Peter Pettigrew , but , as the entire wizarding world except for Harry , Albus-Ronald-Hermione believes Harry to be guilty , Sirius is in hiding .
Harry does not mention the dream , only Harry 's scar hurting , and plans to send the letter once Hedwig gets back .

The next day , It is revealed that Aunt Petunia has put the entire family on a diet , which Harry 's not following .
Suddenly a letter from Molly addressed to the Dursley arrives , Molly asks if Harry can join Fleur-Charles-Percy-Ronald-Arthur-Molly-William to go to the Quidditch World Cup final between Ireland and Bulgaria .
Unfortunately , the letter upsets Vernon because there are so many stamps on the envelope that the postman actually rang the doorbell to laugh about it .
However , one mention of Sirius is enough to convince Vernon to let Harry go .
Harry writes back to Ronald -LRB- after a letter from Ronald was delivered by Ronald 's owl Pigwidgeon -RRB- confirming that they can come pick Ronald up .
Harry writes an extra sentence or two to Sirius 's letter explaining that he will be heading to The Burrow before sending the letter via Hedwig .

On Sunday afternoon , the Weasleys attempt to use Floo to access the Dursley household , unaware that they have an electric fireplace .
The Dursley are shocked after Arthur destroys half the sitting room .
Mr Weasley sends the boys back , but not before Fred purposely drops a Ton-Tongue Toffee on the floor .
Dudley , unable to resist due to the diet the family has been following and Dudley 's fondness for sweets of all sorts , attempts to eat it and experiences the magical effects of a bigger tongue .
Harry exits for the Burrow as Vernon starts throwing china figurines at Mr Weasley .

Upon arriving at the Burrow , Harry meets Ronald 's older brothers Charles-William .
Before they have a chance to talk , Mr Weasley arrives back home and angrily explains that Dudley 's tongue grew to be four feet long and turned purple before Dudley was allowed to fix it .
Dudley points out that this incident could undermine the muggle-wizard relations Dudley has been working so hard to improve even after the twins tell Dudley they did it because Dudley bullies Harry .
Mrs Weasley learns what happened and joins in the scolding of the twins .

Meanwhile , Harry leaves the room and learns that Molly is upset about Weasleys ' Wizard Wheezes , a business enterprise Ronald 's brothers Fred and George set up to sell their self-invented sweets and prank objects .
Mrs Weasley forced them to stop , since she wanted them to have a more reputable career in the Ministry after graduation .

After the spat , Fleur-Charles-Percy-Ronald-Arthur-Molly-William , Harry , and Hermione enjoy a lovely dinner in the garden .
At the table a lot of topics are discussed : the upcoming Quidditch World Cup , Sirius 's whereabouts -LRB- a private conversation by Harry-Ronald-Hermione -RRB- , a missing Ministry Witch named Bertha Jorkins .
Percy -LRB- who has joined the Ministry following his recent graduation -RRB- mentions a top-secret event that he is up to in the Ministry , which will take place after the Quidditch World Cup .

Harry , Hermione and Fleur-Charles-Percy-Ronald-Arthur-Molly-William -LRB- excluding Bill , Charlie , and Percy , who would apparate later , and Mrs Weasley , who would not be attending -RRB- travelled early the next morning to the site of the Quidditch World Cup Final via a Portkey , an enchanted object that can transport large groups of people across large distances in a short time .
Mr Weasley explains that two hundred Portkeys have been placed around Britain to transport thousand of wizards and that they will be using the one at Stoatshead Hill .
There they meet Cedric Diggory , captain of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team , and his father , Amos Diggory .
Fred and George are not too keen to see Cedric due to his team beating Gryffindor last year , and Mr Diggory makes a big deal of it despite Cedric himself stating it was a fluke .
They then gather around and use Portkey on Mr. Weasley 's signal , transporting to the Quidditch World Cup Final .

After arriving and setting up their tents at a wizard campsite , Harry-Ronald-Hermione witness international members of the wizarding community while getting water .
As the older Weasley children arrive and the group makes lunch , they meet Ludo Bagman , the match commentator and head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports and the man who got them their tickets .
During their talk , against their father 's wishes , Fred and George make a bet with Ludo : their entire life savings and a fake wand that Ireland will win , but the Bulgarian Seeker Viktor Krum will catch Golden .
Arthur also asks Bagman if they found Bertha Jorkins yet .

Percy 's boss , Bartemius , head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation then arrives looking for Bagman , though Percy has to shush Bagman when Percy starts to talk about a big event coming up at Hogwarts .
Later that night , after getting some souvenirs , the group heads to the match .

While at the Top Box in the World Cup stadium , Harry meets Winky the house-elf , a friend of Dobby 's , who is saving a seat for Mr Crouch -LRB- who never shows up -RRB- .
The Minister for Magic , Cornelius , as well as Lucius with his Narcissa and Draco -LRB- though both Fleur-Charles-Percy-Ronald-Arthur-Molly-William and Malfoys have to restrain themselves out of respect for Fudge -RRB- , are also in the box .
After Bagman introduces both teams ' mascots , the match is intense and exciting , with amazing skill displayed on both sides , particularly from Krum .
A fight breaks out between the two team 's mascots after Ireland is awarded many penalty shots , which angers the Veela .

Ireland quickly gains a massive lead and wins the match , despite Krum catching Golden .
After the match , both teams head to the Top Box and Fudge awards Ireland the Quidditch World Cup , while Fred and George rejoice about winning their bet with Bagman .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b-a | Draco | Granger , they 're after Muggles .
Do you want to be showing off your knickers in midair ?
Because if you do , hang around ... they 're moving this way , and it would give us all a laugh .
| Harry | Hermione 's a witch .
| Have it your own way , Potter ... If you think they ca n't spot a Mudblood , stay where you are .
| Draco during the riot -RCB- -RCB-

After the wizards around the campsite celebrate before going to sleep , that night , a group of masked wizards attack the camp and torment some local Muggles .
While Mr Weasley heads out with his older children to face them , the rest of the group hides in the woods .
When Ronald trips on a tree branch , Ronald , Harry-Hermione , lose Fred , George , and Ginny .
They run into Draco , who goads them about the riot and tells them to keep Hermione , the `` mudblood '' , safe .
Shortly afterwards , Harry realises Harry 's wand is missing , and they find Winky behaving strangely , as if she were to trying to restrain something .
After finding a place to hide , they hear someone nearby incant '' '' Morsmordre '' '' , and they watch the Dark Mark float into the sky .

The Ministry is quickly at the scene , stunning anything that moves .
After determining that Harry-Ronald-Hermione had nothing to do with the Dark Mark , Harry-Ronald-Hermione search nearby to find Winky holding Harry 's wand .
A quick spell proves that Harry 's wand conjured the Dark Mark .
Even though no one thinks Winky did it , Barty Crouch publicly fires her , leaving Hermione incensed .
Mr Weasley is forced to take the group back to their tents where the others are .

After the attack , Mr Weasley mentions that the Dark Mark is the sign that Tom 's supporters leave whenever they murder someone .
The group also learns that the hooded wizards were Death Eaters , followers of Tom .
Bill mentions that the ones from tonight strangely fled the scene when the Dark Mark was cast in the sky , likely because they were afraid Tom would punish them for failing to stay loyal to Tom after Tom 's downfall .
Mr Weasley then insists they go back to bed , since they would be leaving by Portkey in a few hours .
Harry ca n't sleep due to taking this as a sign that Tom 's making another plan to get Tom 's powers back .

The next morning , the group quickly departs the campsite and arrives at the Burrow , where a worried Mrs Weasley greets them .
Mrs Weasley shows them the Daily Prophet article covering last night 's attack , which is filled with some inaccurate details penned by Rita Skeeter , a journalist well known for her heavily negative stories .
This forces Mr Weasley to head to the Ministry with Percy to straighten things out , as Percy is indirectly mentioned in the article .

Heading into Harry tells Ronald and Hermione about Ronald 's scar hurting and Ronald 's letter to Sirius , as well as the dream .
The three remark on how strange it is that Harry 's scar hurt so soon before the Dark Mark appeared for the first time in thirteen years .

On the final day before they are to return to Hogwarts , Harry hears that the Ministry of Magic has come under heavy fire for failing to stop the riot at the Quidditch World Cup or arrest any of the culprits because of Rita Skeeter 's article .
Mr Weasley mentions that Rita is also attacking the Ministry because of the disappearance of Bertha Jorkins .
Meanwhile , Ronald is dismayed by Ronald 's hideous hand-me-down dress robes , which Ronald will need to wear at Hogwarts for a formal occasion later in the year .

The next morning , Harry overhears a conversation between Mr Weasley and Amos Diggory -LRB- who is communicating through the Floo Network -RRB- about an ex-Auror named -LSB- -LSB- Alastor Moody | Alastor `` Mad-Eye '' Moody -RSB- -RSB- , who was attacked in Harry 's home the previous night .
Amos needs Mr Weasley 's help in clearing things up before the situation gets worse .
Charles informs Harry that an Auror is basically an evil wizard catcher .

After Mr Weasley leaves , Percy , who needs to get back to work , departs .
This leaves the rest of the adults to take the children to King 's Cross Station by muggle taxi .
At the station , the kids say good-bye to Charles-Molly-William , and the adults suggest that the year ahead would be an exciting one for all of Hogwarts students , as well as other wizards and witches .

In Hogwarts , after chatting about other wizarding schools across Europe and the Quidditch World Cup , Draco also speaks about the mysterious upcoming event , that Mrs. Weasley , Charlie and Bill were talking about earlier and says that there 's glory and money involved .

After arriving at the castle and dealing with one of Peeves 's pranks , the trio heads to the Gryffindor Table for the Sorting ceremony , the first in three years for Harry .
Here they meet Colin , who reveals his younger brother Dennis is one of the new students .
During the ceremony , Dennis is placed in Gryffindor .
The Start-of-Term Feast then begins .
After Nearly Headless Nick brings up the subject of Peeves causing problems in the kitchen , Hermione learns that house-elves work there .
This makes Hermione 's even more angry about the way house-elves are treated , especially since house-elves do not get any benefits -LRB- which the house-elves themselves do not want -RRB- .
Hermione then refuses to eat any more food in protest .

After making a few start-of-term notices , Albus announces that instead of having Quidditch this year -LRB- which created lots of mayhem , especially from the Weasley twins -RRB- , a very special event is going to take place at Hogwarts .
Before Albus goes on , a mysterious man with a bizarre appearance appears in the Great Hall .
Albus identifies Albus as Mad-Eye Moody , the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher .
Afterwards , Albus states this event is the Triwizard Tournament , which will start at the end of October on Hallowe'en .
The Tournament calls for a single champion from each of the three largest wizarding schools in Europe to compete in a series of three trials for the prize of one thousand Galleons .
Though it was n't in play in the past due to the vast number of student deaths , Albus reveals that both Crouch -LRB- Department of International Co-operation -RRB- and Bagman 's -LRB- Department of Games and Sports -RRB- departments at the British Ministry of Magic have decided to reinstate the tournament under the condition that new safety rules are used , including that no student under the age of seventeen will submit their name for consideration .
The students are then sent to bed , though Fred and George plot to find a way to bypass Albus 's safety measures so they can enter the tournament , to get fame and glory , as well as money .

On the morning of their first day back , Harry-Ronald-Hermione prepare to begin the classes in Harry-Ronald-Hermione 's school schedule , though Harry is concerned about why Hedwig had not returned with a reply from Sirius .
Hermione has also ended Hermione 's hunger strike , deciding to stand up for house-elf rights in a different manner .
First the Gryffindor Fourth-Years has lessons for Herbology , then Care of Magical Creatures , where Rubeus teaches about monstrous creatures known as Blast-Ended Skrewts .
Lastly , Harry-Ronald have Divination , where Sybill Trelawney assigns the class extra homework after Ronald makes a rude comment to Lavender Brown .

At dinner , Draco insults Ronald by showing Ronald a Daily Prophet article that casts Ronald 's father Arthur -LRB- identified in the article as Arnold Weasley -RRB- in a bad light by Rita Skeeter , who somehow found out about the attack on Alastor Moody 's home , even after the Ministry of Magic tried to keep it secret .
While Harry-Hermione restrain an angry Ronald , Draco makes some rude comments about Mrs Weasley .
After Harry counters this by making a rude comment about Draco 's Molly and starts walking away , an angry Draco attempts to curse Harry from behind .
Moody quickly intervenes , transfiguring Draco into a white ferret and bouncing him around until Minerva appears .
After seeing what he 's doing and putting two and two together , Minerva undoes the spell .
Minerva then proceeds to tell Moody off by stating they never punish the students by hexing them .
Moody defends his actions by explaining he thought a good sharp shock would be sufficient .
Minerva tells him they punish the students by giving them detentions or speaking with the offender 's Head of House .
With that , Moody takes Draco to see Professor Snape .

After Hermione leaves to do some extracurricular work -LRB- even with no homework given out to Hermione 's -RRB- , Fred , George , and their friend Lee Jordan show up and tell Harry and Ronald how cool Moody 's -LRB- Defence Against the Dark Arts -RRB- class is .
Ronald finds out it will be a few days before Harry-Ronald will have Harry-Ronald 's first lesson with Moody .

In their first lesson with Moody on Thursday , Moody , after revealing he will only be staying for the year , decides to show the fourth-year Gryffindors the Unforgivable Curses .
Despite some fear amongst the students -LRB- especially Neville , who needs comfort from both the trio and Moody after the lesson ; Moody later lends Neville a Herbology book to cheer him up -RRB- , Moody shows the entire class the three curses using spiders as his test subjects : The Imperius Curse , a mind control spell , The Cruciatus Curse , a pain inflicting spell , and The Killing Curse , a spell that causes instant death to any living thing it hits .
He also reveals the the use of these spells gain the user a one way ticket to Azkaban

Later that night after dinner in Harry Harry-Ronald fake Harry-Ronald 's Divination homework after finding it too difficult .
Harry notices Fred and George plotting something , though Harry is unable to figure out what .
Later on , Hermione shows up and reveals that she has started SPEW , a club for fighting for house-elf rights and has just spent time in the library researching house-elf history .
She wants Harry-Ronald to join , but before the conversation is carried out further , Hedwig returns with a letter from Sirius .

Sirius says there are rumours about Harry 's scar hurting and Harry is returning to Britain .
Harry feels worried about Sirius coming back and possibly getting caught by the Ministry , all because Harry hastily sent the letter .
Harry goes to bed unsettled .

Early the next day , a concerned Harry sends a letter to Sirius claiming he is fine and that Sirius wo n't have to return to Britain .
Over the next couple of weeks , Harry fights off his concerns for Sirius while waiting for Hedwig to get back .
In Defence Against the Dark Arts , Moody has his students practise resisting the Imperius Curse .
Only Harry is able to resist it , despite slightly bruising his knees in the process ; it takes him a couple more tries before he can completely resist it .
During Transfiguration , Minerva explains to Minerva 's fourth-year students , as Minerva assigns them extra homework , that this is the time for them to start preparing for the O.W.L. examinations , which will occur at the end of their next year .

Following Care of Magical Creatures , the group returns to the castle and sees a crowd of students looking at a sign posted to the wall .
The sign reveals that in about a week , on 30 October , lessons will end early due to the delegations from the two other schools , the Beauxbatons Academy of Magic and the Durmstrang Institute , arriving that evening .
The lesson cut off , for Gryffindors was Potions , and the Trio felt lucky , especially when Snape hinted of a poisoning , to find out if their antidotes work or not .
Over the next week , Hogwarts Castle undergoes a major refit : the castle is redecorated and the nervous staff members prepare for the delegates to arrive .

On 30 October , Harry again hears Fred and George Weasley talking : this time , Harry hears that they are talking about sending a letter to a certain person .
The trio talk with the twins about the Triwizard Tournament , and Hermione brings up house-elves .
Fred and George suggest Hermione should visit the Hogwarts Kitchen just to see for Hermione how happy they are , despite Hermione 's insistence that they are being brainwashed .

The owls then arrive , including Hedwig .
Sirius mentions that he has seen through Harry 's ruse and asks Harry not to worry about him , but rather to watch out for Harry and keep him posted on the recent events at Hogwarts .
Sirius also asks that Harry use a different owl next time when sending him a message , as Hedwig , a snowy owl , would attract too much attention .

That night , each of the houses are assembled in a line in the Great Hall while waiting for the delegates to arrive .
The first comes by flying carriage , the second shortly afterwards via submerged ship , with their respective heads : Madame Maxime -LRB- Headmistress of Beauxbatons -RRB- , a woman as big as Rubeus , and Igor Karkaroff -LRB- Headmaster of Drumstrang -RRB- .
Viktor Krum is revealed to be among the Durmstrang students , which makes Ronald , a little excited .

The students sit down at their tables -LRB- with the Beauxbatons students at the Ravenclaw table and Durmstrang at Slytherin -RRB- , and the Welcoming Feast begins .
Rubeus , Ludo Bagman , and Bartemius all arrive late .
After the feast , Albus announces that Crouch and Bagman , who helped organise the tournament , will also serve as judges alongside the three headmasters to evaluate the Champions ' performances .
Albus then announces that the three champions will be chosen by the Goblet of Fire , an enchanted artefact .
Students must drop their names into the Goblet , and the Goblet chooses the most worthy entrants to compete in three dangerous tasks .
Albus finishes by stating the champions will be selected the following night during Hallowe'en .
On the way out , the Durmstrang headmaster Karkaroff gives Harry a look of displeasure before Moody forces Harry to move along .
The Goblet is placed in the Great Hall and an Age Line is drawn around the Goblet to prevent underage students from submitting their names .

The next day , predictably , Fred and George attempt to cross the line through the use of an Ageing Potion , but they are repelled by the line .
The pair has to be sent to the Hospital Wing to have their long grey beards removed , much to everyone 's amusement , including Albus 's .
That afternoon , Harry-Ronald , and Hermione visit Rubeus at Ronald 's cabin and find that Ronald has gotten dressed up for Madame Maxime .
He refuses Hermione 's offer to join S.P.E.W. , pointing out that the house-elves enjoy their work .

That night , during the Hallowe'en feast , the champions are announced : Viktor Krum , the Seeker for the Bulgarian Quidditch World Cup team , representing Durmstrang ; Fleur , a beautiful girl Harry-Ronald met the night before , representing Beauxbatons ; and Cedric Diggory of Hufflepuff representing Hogwarts .
Unexpectedly , a fourth name is thrown from the Goblet of Fire : Harry , much to the dismay of some .

Since Harry neither submitted his name nor asked an older student to do so , the assembly is dumbfounded .
Harry himself is feeling very confused as he heads into the room where the champions are waiting .
Although protests issue from the heads of the other schools , it is decided that the Goblet of Fire has spoken and that changes must be made accordingly .
While many think Harry has somehow circumvented Albus 's age-restricting barrier , Moody suggests that perhaps someone entered Harry 's name under a fourth school to ensure he would be included in the competition , hoping he might not survive the perilous tasks .

Crouch reveals that the First Task is on 24 November and the champions have until then to figure out what it is and to prepare for it .
The champions are forbidden to receive any help from anyone else .
They are told that they will learn the details of the Second Task after completing the First Task .
They will also be exempt from the end of year exams due to the tournament .

The group disbands and Cedric talks with Harry briefly as they are heading back to their respective dormitories , Harry tries to tell Harry that Harry did not put Harry 's name nor ask for it , but Harry 's efforts are wasted .
At the Gryffindor Common Room , most of the other Gryffindor students throw a party to celebrate , despite Harry 's displeasure .
Afterwards Harry returns to Harry 's dormitory , where Ronald refuses to believe Harry 's story about not entering the tournament .

Hermione explains to Harry the next morning that Harry 's entry into the competition strained Harry 's relationship with Ronald , who feels once again left in the shadow of Harry 's friend .
Harry reluctantly accepts Hermione 's advice to send a letter to Sirius to update Harry on what happened .
Harry send a letter with a school barn owl , much to Hedwig 's chagrin .

Ronald is not alone in shunning Harry ; a great many of the students from all three schools assume Ronald somehow cheated Ronald 's way into the tournament .
This makes Harry 's life miserable , even though Harry 's fellow Gryffindors -LRB- excluding Ronald -RRB- are proud that Harry will be in the tournament .
The stress makes it difficult for Harry to concentrate on Harry 's lessons over the next week .

In Potions , the Slytherin students wear insulting badges that cause an angry Harry to attempt to curse Draco .
Hermione end up cursed instead , and both head to the hospital wing .
Though Harry and Ronald reconnect when Snape takes 50 points away from Gryffindor and gives Hermione detention , Ronald refuses to reconcile with Harry .

During a Potions lesson with Snape , Colin arrives to pick up Harry , as Mr Bagman requires Harry for a photo session .
Rita Skeeter interviews Harry in a closet for a piece she is writing on the Triwizard Tournament , before the much important Wand weighing ceremony begins .
Harry tells her Harry does n't know how Harry entered the tournament , but she manages to twist Harry 's words before Albus interrupts , stating the ceremony is about to begin .

Here Harry sees the Wand Creator Garrick again .
After examining the other champion 's wands , Harry examines Harry 's and deems it in perfect condition .
After the champions and judges go through a long photoshoot , Harry goes to dinner and then returns to Gryffindor Tower .
Ronald tells Harry that Ronald has an owl and that their detention starts later .
Going to where the school barn owl is with Harry reads that Sirius thinks it is too risky to communicate by letter and that Harry will contact Harry on 22 November at 1:00 a.m. Harry must be alone at the fireplace in the Gryffindor common room at that time .

Harry 's impending talk with Sirius helps Harry through Harry 's embarrassment about Rita Skeeter 's news article , which told a highly inaccurate version of Harry 's life story .
This further deepens the rift with Ronald , who thinks Harry is trying to get attention .
Ravenclaw Cho Chang is the only person outside of Gryffindor who wishes Harry good luck with the first task that is coming up on that Tuesday .
Harry finds Harry infatuated with her .

On the Saturday prior to the first task , the students visit Hogsmeade village .
Harry goes with Hermione under Harry 's Invisibility Cloak so Harry can relax and avoid dealing with anymore criticism .
While Harry is at the Three Broomsticks Inn drinking Butterbeer , Moody sees Harry under Harry 's cloak and Rubeus asks Harry to meet Harry at midnight , one hour before Harry 's meeting with Sirius .

The Gamekeeper sneaks Harry into a meeting with Maxime ; she does not know Harry is there .
Rubeus leads Harry Harry to a spot in the woods where dragons are being kept for the first task .
Charles and other dragon keepers are working to get the dragons ready for the First Task and keep them under control .
Charlie talks with Rubeus and identifies the species of each of the four dragon breeds .
He reveals that one is for each champion and that each must get past their assigned beast , though he and the other keepers are also there to keep things under control .
Harry leaves for the castle , bumping into Karkaroff but managing to keep hidden .
Harry realises that if Karkaroff followed Rubeus , it was likely that Cedric will be the only champion not aware of what he would be facing .

Just as Harry returns to Sirius contacts Harry via the Floo Network .
Harry starts by filling Harry in on what has happened .
Sirius then speaks and warns Harry that Karkaroff was once a Death Eater ; Harry was released only after identifying other Death Eaters , and could have put Harry 's name in the Goblet of Fire .
Sirius then mentions Rita Skeeter 's article from last month regarding the attack on Moody ; Harry suspects it was no accident and that someone may have tried to keep Moody from going to Hogwarts .
Sirius also brings up the Death Eater disturbance at the Quidditch World Cup , as well as Bertha Jorkins .
Jorkins , he says , disappeared in Albania , where Tom was last reported to be .
Sirius reveals he knew Jorkins personally while they were in school and mentions that she was n't very bright and could have easily fallen into a trap .
She also would have known about the Triwizard Tournament beforehand .

Sirius finishes by stating that Karkaroff betrayed the Death Eaters long ago and might not be the guilty party , especially since whoever put Harry 's name in the Goblet had a reason for doing so .
Before he can give Harry any advice on getting past Harry 's dragon , Harry is interrupted by Ronald and disappears from the fire .
Ronald demands to know who Ronald was talking to but Harry tells Ronald it 's none of Ronald 's business and goes to bed .

After Harry tells Hermione everything Harry learned recently , they try to research ways to get past a dragon in the library without success .
On Monday , realising the other schools ' champions know about the dragons , Harry tips off Cedric to make sure the contest is fair .
Moody then appears and gives Harry some general advice on how to beat Harry 's Dragon : play to Harry 's strengths and use a simple spell to get what Harry needs .
With Harry manages to master the Summoning Charm after working on it until 2 a.m. On Tuesday , the day of the task , Mr Bagman reveals that their task is to get the Golden egg each dragon is guarding .
The model dragons each champion would draw out of a small bag would determine the order they 'll be going in and which dragon they 'll face .

Harry finds Harry slated to go last .
Harry gets the most violent of the four dragons , the Hungarian Horntail , though Harry declines Mr Bagman 's offer for advice .
Once Harry 's turn comes up , Harry manages to summon Harry 's Firebolt and fly .
Harry uses the flying strategies Harry learned as a Quidditch player to lure the dragon off the eggs long enough for Harry to zoom in and snatch the golden egg , despite taking a minor shoulder injury during the task .
Ronald , realising the true danger of the Tournament , tries to apologise to Harry , who forgives Ronald , with most of Hogwarts -LRB- excluding Slytherin -RRB- backing Ronald as well .

After seeing Harry learns from Charles that Harry is currently tied with Viktor Krum for first place and that Mr Bagman needs to see Harry .
Mr Bagman reveals to the champions that the Second Task will take place on 24 February at 9:30 am and that their Golden Eggs contain a clue as to what it will be .
On his way back to the castle with Ronald , Rita Skeeter shows up for an interview , but Harry brushes her off .

After Ronald is brought up to speed on what Harry has learned , Ronald allows Harry to borrow Pigwidgeon to send Sirius a new letter updating Ronald on the completion of the first task .
Gryffindor celebrates Harry 's success that night , but when Harry opens up Harry 's golden egg during the party , a horrible screech comes out .
Meanwhile , Hermione learns from Fred Weasley how to get into the kitchen where the house-elves are .

In December , Rita Skeeter arrives at Rubeus 's during a Care of Magical Creatures lesson with the fourth years to try to get an interview with Rubeus .
Rubeus is surprised to see her there , as Albus had banned her from Hogwarts Castle .

That night , Hermione does not show up to dinner .
Hermione surprises Harry and Ronald as they are about to enter Gryffindor Tower and takes them to the kitchens .
There they see a lot of domestic elves , and Harry is reunited with Dobby and learns that Winky is there too .
Dobby reveals that it is difficult for a free house-elf to find actual work .
After Dobby spent two years failing to find work and found Winky , Dobby came to Hogwarts and had been there for a week so far ; Albus even agreed to pay Dobby a small wage .
Winky is very sad and ashamed about being fired by Hermione 's old master .
Hermione tries to cheer Hermione 's up , with no luck , though Winky does become slightly happier when Hermione learns that Mr Crouch has been at Hogwarts .

After a Transfiguration class , Minerva tells Minerva 's students about the Yule Ball , a formal event that is scheduled for 25 December and is open to fourth years and above -LRB- though a younger student can still attend if invited by an older student as their date -RRB- .
They gather in a spare classroom to practise for the ball and Ronald is forced to practise dancing with Minerva .
Minerva tells Harry privately that Ronald and Ronald 's dance partner will start off the event alongside the other champions and their dates as a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament .

Over the next few weeks , both Ronald and Harry unsuccessfully attempt to find dates as they get through the final classes of the term .
Fred and George are also acting suspiciously again ; they want to borrow Pigwidgeon to deliver a letter to someone , but Pigwidgeon is not back yet -LRB- from delivering Sirius 's letter -RRB- .
Harry later works up Harry 's courage and asks Cho to go to the dance with Harry , but learns that she had already agreed to go with Cedric .
This information sours Harry 's relationship with Cedric .

After Harry returns to the Gryffindor common room , Harry sees Ginny comforting Ronald and learns that Ronald foolishly tried to ask Fleur out .
Ronald then tactlessly asks Hermione out , but Fleur is going with someone else .
Harry ca n't ask Ginny out either , since she is going with Neville .
Finally , Harry manages to secure dates for both Harry and Ronald .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b-a | Hermione | Well , if you do n't like it , you know what the solution is , do n't you ?
| Ronald Weasley | Oh yeah ?
What 's that ?
| Next time there 's a ball , ask me before someone else does , and not as a last resort !
| Ronald and Hermione bellowing at each other -RCB- -RCB-

As the holidays begin , Hermione refuses to tell Ronald who Hermione 's date for the Yule Ball is , stating he 'll make fun of Hermione 's .
Hermione also reveals that after Draco put the curse on Hermione 's that made Hermione already large front teeth grow to a huge size , Hermione let Poppy shrink them to a more normal size when Hermione healed Hermione .
Draco tries to taunt Hermione , saying no one in their right mind would take Hermione to the ball , but the mere mention of Mad-Eye Moody is enough to drive him back .
Pigwidgeon returns with Sirius 's reply .
Sirius congratulates Harry for completing the first task and reminds him to stay on guard .

On Christmas Day , Dobby wakes Harry up and gives Harry Harry 's present : a pair of mismatched socks Harry made Harry from wool Harry purchased with Harry 's wages .
Harry then opens the presents Harry got from Harry 's other friends for Christmas , which include a hand-knit sweater with the image of a dragon from Mrs Weasley and a magical penknife from Sirius .
After spending the day relaxing , Harry and Harry 's dorm mates get ready for the ball , then head to the Great Hall , where the event is to take place .
At the start of the ball , it is revealed that Hermione is going with none other than Viktor Krum .

When the champions reach the judges table , Bartemius is nowhere to be seen .
Percy , who was promoted to Crouch 's assistant , says Crouch is ill .
After the entire room has their meal , the Weird Sisters start their performance for the dance .
Neither Harry nor Ronald have any interest in dancing -LRB- though Harry does participate in the opening dance -RRB- and their dates , the Patil sisters , soon abandon them , Ronald also gets into an embarrassing argument with Hermione ; Ronald claims that Viktor Krum is the enemy and that going to the ball with Ronald is treason .

Percy sees Fred and George bothering Ludo Bagman and tries to intervene , and Mr Bagman comes over to have a chat with Harry .
Harry-Ronald then decide to go for a walk on the grounds to get away from the ruckus .
Harry-Ronald encounter Karkaroff having a worried discussion with Snape , and Rubeus enjoying a tender moment .
The moment is ruined when Rubeus insinuates Maxime is a Half-giant , like him .
Ronald naturally has to inform Harry about how serious this information is , given the nasty reputation giants have in the wizarding world .
Shortly after the ball , Cedric gives Harry a hint about the egg : take a bath with it .
Harry gives Harry the password to enter the Prefects ' bathroom and thanks Harry for warning Harry about the dragons .

Ronald-Hermione decide to put last night 's argument behind Ronald-Hermione .
Hermione is n't too surprised when Hermione learns that Rubeus is a half-giant , as Hermione suspected this all along .
Meanwhile , Harry is reluctant to take Cedric 's advice due to Harry 's jealousy about Cho .

A substitute teacher , Professor Grubbly-Plank , teaches the first Care of Magical Creatures of the year .
Draco shows Harry that Rita Skeeter had published a nasty story about Rubeus and Draco 's giant heritage -LRB- which also used a quote from Draco -RRB- ; this has apparently driven Rubeus into hiding .
This raises some questions between the trio , as nobody else heard Rubeus talking privately with Madam Maxime that night and Rita is supposed to be banned from Hogwarts .

Several weeks pass and during another Hogsmeade visit , while hoping to find Rubeus at the Three Broomsticks Inn , the trio instead finds Ludo Bagman meeting with some goblins .
During a private conversation with Mr Bagman , Harry learns that Barty Crouch has stopped coming to work and is sending Percy instructions by owl .
Also , after a search , they still have n't found Bertha Jorkins .
Bagman then again offers his help for the tournament , which Harry immediately declines .
Fred and George 's sudden appearance forces Mr Bagman to leave .
Hermione then questions why Mr Bagman is trying to help Harry cheat , along with why he was meeting with goblins .
Rita Skeeter , who also encountered Bagman and the goblins , then shows up to investigate .
Harry-Hermione start an argument with Hermione 's about Hermione 's article on Rubeus .

The trio go to Rubeus 's cabin and , along with Albus , try to persuade Rubeus to return .
They point out that not everyone has abandoned Rubeus , and that everyone has secrets in their pasts .
After Albus leaves , Rubeus remembers Rubeus 's late father telling Rubeus never to be ashamed of what Rubeus is and gets over Rubeus 's depression .
Rubeus gives Rubeus 's support to Harry in the Tournament , believing that if Harry wins , Rubeus could show everyone they do not have to be ashamed of what they are .
This is enough to convince Harry to put aside Harry 's pride and take Cedric 's advice .

Harry sneaks into the Prefect 's bathroom at night so Harry could have all the time Harry will need to figure out the clue , taking only the golden egg , Harry 's Invisibility Cloak , and the Marauder 's Map with Harry .
Harry initially has trouble figuring out how to open the egg properly , but with a little help from Myrtle , who had been spying on Harry , Harry opens the egg under water .
This time , Harry hears voices singing and can understand them when Harry puts Harry 's head underwater .
Harry realises that Harry must save something Harry cares about from merpeople who live in the depths of the Black Lake .

On the way back to Gryffindor tower , Harry sees Barty Crouch in Snape 's office on the Marauder 's Map and goes to investigate .
When Harry falls through a trick stair and traps Harry 's leg , Harry accidentally drops the egg and map , attracting the attention of Argus .
Argus finds the egg , and Snape soon arrives and demands Argus 's help in catching someone who broke into his office .
Moody then shows up , angering Snape by suggesting Snape had something to hide in his office .
Snape points out that Moody searched his office after his arrival at Hogwarts .
Moody then saves Harry from detection by claiming that the Marauder 's Map is his own -LRB- after an invisible Harry warns him not to give it to Snape -RRB- .
However , Snape suspects Harry 's involvement because he recognises the Marauder 's Map before Moody confiscates the egg from Argus and forces the pair away .

As Moody frees Harry Harry tells Moody about how the map works and said Harry saw Mr Crouch on it .
After Moody spends time looking over the Marauder 's Map , Harry asks what Crouch was doing in Snape 's office , and Moody suggests that Crouch was trying to find evidence of Snape being a dark wizard .
Moody then asks to borrow the map , and after learning what Harry was up to that night , says that Harry might consider becoming an Auror for a career .

Harry explains what happened the previous night to Ronald-Hermione .
Even though Harry-Ronald suspect Snape might have put Harry 's name in the Goblet of Fire , Hermione doubts this .
Harry also sends a school owl to Sirius to update Harry on what happened .

Over the coming weeks , even with help from Ronald-Hermione as well as the library 's resources -LRB- including getting Minerva 's permission for the Restricted Section -RRB- , Harry struggles to think of a way to breathe underwater for an hour .
Two days before the second task is to start , Sirius 's response comes in .
Sirius wants to know when their next trip to Hogsmeade is .

On the last night before the task , the trio are continuing their research in the school library when Fred and George appear to inform them that Minerva has summoned Ronald-Hermione .
Harry later sneaks back into the library after hours with Harry 's Invisibility Cloak , but ca n't find anything else .

The next morning , with a little help from Dobby , Harry discovers gillyweed , a plant that , when eaten , gives Harry fish-like qualities such as gills and fins .
Harry quickly makes Harry 's way to the lake just as the task is about start and finds that , once again , Harry is taking Mr Crouch 's place .
While swimming through the lake and fighting off a swarm of Grindylows , Myrtle points Harry in the right direction and Harry discovers a town of Merpeople , where Ronald -LRB- the thing Harry would miss the most -RRB- is being held , along with Hermione -LRB- for Krum -RRB- , Cho -LRB- for Cedric -RRB- , and Fleur 's sister .

Harry frees Ronald , but refuses to leave the others , despite the insistence of the Merpeople .
Cedric and Krum appear and rescue their loved ones , but Fleur never arrives .
With little other choice , Harry drags her sister to the surface as well , narrowly avoiding drowning as the gillyweed wears off .
Although Harry was wrong to think the other hostages would be left to die -LRB- they would have simply returned to the surface unharmed -RRB- , Harry 's bravery and valour earn Harry extra points from the judges , who state that Harry showed great `` moral fibre . ''
This puts both Harry and Cedric in first place in the overall points .
Ludo Bagman then reveals the third and final task is on 24 June and the champions will learn more about it a month beforehand .

In March , Sirius 's reply states that the trio is to meet up with him during their next Hogsmeade trip and asks them to bring food .
Before Potions , Slytherin Pansy Parkinson gleefully gives Hermione a copy of Witch Weekly ; Rita had published an article on Hermione saying that she is toying with both Harry and Krum 's feelings .
Pansy who is quoted in the article , suggested Hermione was making illegal Love Potions .
Hermione realises that Skeeter must have eavesdropped on her and Krum 's conversation on the shores of the lake , and begins wondering how Rita is getting her information .
After Snape gets a hold of the article , he reads it aloud , creating further laughter from the Slytherins .
He then breaks the trio up and sends them to different tables .
Snape also confronts Harry over the recent theft of boomslang skin and gillyweed from his office , who has no idea what he 's talking about .
He threatens Harry with Veritaserum , a potion that will cause Harry to tell the truth when consumed .
Karkaroff then shows up to talk to Snape and sticks around until after class .
Snape blows him off , but not before Harry , who purposely stayed behind , noticed that Karkaroff had tried to show Snape something on his arm .

Sirius meets Harry-Ronald-Hermione secretly in Hogsmeade and directs Harry-Ronald-Hermione to a mountain cave where Buckbeak and some old Daily Prophet articles are waiting -LRB- Sirius had been stealing discarded newspapers to keep up on current events -RRB- .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione first discuss Winky and what happened at the World Cup .
Sirius suggests that whoever stole Harry 's wand must have done so while Harry-Ronald-Hermione were watching the game in the Top Box and is suspicious that Bartemius was looking around for something before Harry sacked Winky .
Harry then finds it odd that not only did Crouch not show up during the game , but also that Harry is suddenly indisposed .

Sirius explains that Crouch was the one who sent him to Azkaban without a trial , as Crouch used to head the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and was once poised to become the next Minister for Magic .
During Tom 's previous reign , Crouch took extreme measures against the Death Eaters , including allowing the Aurors to use the Unforgivable Curses against them .
While this greatly boosted Crouch 's popularity and ensured that Crouch would become the next Minister , Crouch 's Bartemius had been caught with a group of Death Eaters just after Tom 's downfall .
The Death eaters in question were trying to find Tom and help Tom get Tom 's strength back .
The youth was given a show trial by Tom 's father before being locked up in Azkaban ; Tom died a year later .
Shortly after Bartemius died , Crouch 's Mrs died as well .
Crouch 's popularity dropped heavily after that , as people suspected that Crouch was a bad father .
As a result , with Crouch 's reputation in the Ministry destroyed , Cornelius became the Minister instead and reassigned Barty Crouch Snr to the Department of International Magical Cooperation .

Ronald brings up Crouch 's appearance in Snape 's office .
Sirius states that does n't make sense since Crouch would have kept an eye on Snape as a tournament judge .
When Ronald-Hermione bicker about whether Snape can be trusted , Sirius partly agrees with Ronald , as it is questionable why Albus would trust Snape .
Snape was interested in the Dark Arts as a child and hung out with some Slytherin students that became Death Eaters , though he also knows Snape is smart enough to not get caught by the Ministry .
Harry then remembers Karkaroff 's sudden appearance in Ronald-Hermione 's class , though Sirius ca n't figure out what that was about .

Sirius then brings all the questions of these mysterious circumstances together , including why Moody was also searching Snape 's office .
He asks Ronald to send a letter to Percy to find out if there is any news about Crouch .
Before they leave , Sirius reminds them not to wander outside of Hogwarts at all for safety reasons .
On the way back , the trio conclude that the scandal involving Ronald 's son is the reason Crouch overreacted to seeing Winky being accused of conjuring the Dark Mark .
Ronald voices how Ronald and Percy are similar .
Hermione states Percy would never do what Ronald 's boss did but Ronald is unconvinced .

After sending Hedwig with the letter to Percy , the trio heads to the kitchen to give Dobby the socks Harry bought for Dobby .
They find that Winky has become intoxicated from consuming a large amount of butterbeer -LRB- which works like alcohol on house-elves -RRB- .
It does n't help when Harry mentions that Mr Crouch has disappeared .

Hate mail soon starts popping up for Hermione in regards to Rita Skeeter 's article .
She has to go to the Hospital Wing due to a curse and does n't turn up until a Care of Magical Creatures lesson , where Rubeus is having them use Nifflers to find gold coins -LRB- which is actually Leprechaun gold -RRB- he buried .
Rubeus encourages Hermione to ignore the hate mail , citing the hate mail he received after Skeeter released the article about him .
Hermione decides to discover how Skeeter has been getting her information when she is already banned from school grounds .

It is around Easter that Percy 's response comes , along with Easter eggs from Mrs Weasley -LRB- Hermione 's is smaller than Harry and Ronald 's because Mrs Weasley read Skeeter 's article -RRB- .
Percy irradiated response does n't help .
On the night of 24 May , Harry and the other champions are called to the Quidditch pitch by Ludo Bagman and informed that a magical maze will be grown there and filled with magical obstacles .
Their job is to head to the centre of the maze and touch the Triwizard Cup .
Before Mr Bagman can offer Harry advice again , Krum takes Harry aside to the Forbidden Forest and questions him about Harry 's relationship with Hermione .
Harry assures Krum that Harry and Hermione are just friends .

Moments later , a rather crazy-looking Bartemius emerges from the forest asking for Albus .
Albus mentions that Tom is getting stronger and that he Tom was responsible for something bad .
Tom also mentions Tom 's son , as well as Bertha Jorkins , who is now dead .
Harry goes to retrieve Albus , but when Harry returns , they find that Krum has been stunned and Crouch has disappeared .
Harry accuses Mr Crouch 's apparent attack on his student as a secret conspiracy by Albus .
Rubeus angrily demands that he apologise but Albus restrains him .
Albus has Rubeus take Harry back to Gryffindor Tower to rest .
Albus hints in Albus 's message not to contact Sirius until the next morning .
On the way back , Rubeus scolds Harry for being out alone with Viktor Krum .

The trio debates last night 's events the following morning .
Harry thinks the strange things Mr Crouch said were important , especially if Tom is getting stronger .
The group goes to the owlery to send a letter to Sirius and overhears Fred and George , who are talking about blackmailing someone that they 've tried to reason with .
Ronald asks who they are blackmailing , but they make it look like they are joking .
After they leave , Ronald points out that it is obvious Fred and George are serious about starting a Joke Shop .
They are close to graduating , with only one full year left , and they have to make enough money on their own to start one .
Hermione suggests telling Percy but Ronald refuses both because of what Sirius said about Barty Crouch Snr and Percy 's similarities to Percy .
Later , they meet up with Moody .
Moody reveals that he could n't find him .
He also tells them that there 's nothing they can do about Couch and that the Ministry is investigating the matter and urges Harry to instead prepare for the final task .

Sirius 's response arrives the following day : Sirius scolds Harry for being out with Krum alone and late at night and says Sirius is lucky Sirius was n't attacked , since it is clear to Sirius that someone did not want Barty Crouch to reach Albus and Sirius was probably feet away from them in the dark .
Sirius instructs Harry to stay safe and practise defensive spells for the Third Task , and demands that Harry give Harry Harry 's word that Harry wo n't go out of bounds again , especially not after hours .
At Hermione 's urging , Sirius sends an owl back doing so .

Not long later , during Divination , Harry passes out and has a vision .
Harry sees Tom being informed of someone 's death and torturing Wormtail for failing to prevent that person from escaping .
Harry awakens with Harry 's scar hurting badly and pretends Harry has to go to the hospital wing .
Harry actually goes to see Albus .
After spending time trying to get the password to Harry overhears an argument between Cornelius-Albus regarding the Barty Crouch situation .
Fudge refuses to believe the words that Crouch said about Bertha Jorkins being dead , and while debating what happened to Crouch , Fudge suggests that Madame Maxime is the likely culprit given her half-giant physiology .
Albus accuses Fudge of acting on personal prejudice , which Fudge ignores due to Albus 's friendship with Rubeus .
Moody interrupts the debate to explain that Harry has arrived .

Albus leave to examine the school grounds , and Harry is alone in Albus 's office .
While looking around , notices Albus 's Pensieve , a device that stores memories .
Through curiosity , Harry peers in and ends up looking into three of Albus 's memories .
The first is the trial of Igor Karkaroff , in which Harry renounces Harry 's support of the Death Eaters and gives the names of existing Death Eaters , including Snape .
Albus -LRB- in the memory -RRB- states that Snape is a spy against Tom and is no longer a threat .
The second memory shows the trial of Ludo Bagman , who was accused of passing information to Tom , even though he was n't aware the person he gave the information to was a Death Eater ; his popularity quickly clears him .
The third is a trial for the Lestrange , a group of three , and Bartemius , for the use of the Cruciatus Curse on Alice and Frank Longbottom .
Crouch sentences them all to a lifetime in Azkaban .
By then Albus -LRB- from the present -RRB- arrives and brings Harry back .

After Albus explains what happened and shows Harry another of Albus 's memories regarding a teenage Bertha Jorkins during her Hogwarts years , Harry explains what happened in Divination .
Albus finds Harry 's scar pains to be an odd concept and brings up that this is the second time it has hurt , the first being during the summer .
This shows Harry that Albus has been talking to Sirius , and Albus reveals that it was Albus 's idea for Black to hide in the cave outside Hogsmeade .

Albus suspects that the reason why Harry 's scar hurts is due to the connection that Tom 's failed curse had created with Harry .
Harry believes the scar would only hurt when Tom were close or was feeling a strong emotion .
Albus also explains to Harry that , unlike the Ministry , Albus believes that the disappearances of Bertha Jorkins , Barty Crouch , and a Muggle by the name of Frank Bryce may be connected to Tom .

Albus also explains that Frank and Alice Longbottom are Neville 's parents and they went insane due to the Lestranges ' attack and that this is the reason why Neville was brought up by his grandmother and why he has such an aversion to the Cruciatus Curse .
Albus does n't know if Crouch Jr was involved , but he personally requests that Harry does not disclose this information to anyone , saying that Neville himself will share it when he is ready .

Harry passes off the information Harry learned from the Pensieve to Ronald-Hermione , excluding the details about Neville 's parents .
Hermione realises this is what Rita Skeeter and Winky meant about Ludo Bagman being a dark wizard .
That same night , Harry 's hatred of Tom reaches a new height because of what Harry learned from the Pensieve .
As the task approaches , Ronald-Hermione find time when Ronald-Hermione are not studying for Ronald-Hermione 's final exams to help Harry .
Even Minerva helps by allowing Harry to practise in her empty classroom during lunch time .
During one practise session , Ronald notices Draco outside the castle sitting by a tree and doing something odd .
Harry-Hermione also see Ronald before Ronald-Hermione return to practise .
Sirius sends Harry messages by owl each day , reminding Harry to focus on what is ahead .

On the day of the third task , Rita Skeeter releases an article claiming Harry is demented and dangerous .
She uses a quote from Draco in the article .
This raises some questions between the trio , since the article mentions Harry 's scar hurting during Divination .
The class takes place in the North Tower and Skeeter is not allowed inside Hogwarts , so she should n't have had that information .
Hermione finally figures out how Skeeter may be getting her information and leaves to put her theory to the test .

Minerva tells the champions that their families have come to watch them complete .
Harry does n't want to meet them , expecting Dursley , but instead finds Molly-William .
While they give Harry a tour of their knowledge of Hogwarts , Mrs Weasley gets into an argument with Amos Diggory regarding Harry 's popularity in the tournament before Mrs Diggory asks Harry to stop .
They then mention to Harry that Harry will not be coming this time .
After the Barty Crouch incident , which is being kept secret , Harry was hauled in for questioning regarding that the instructions Harry was receiving , which may not have actually been sent by Barty Crouch .
Instead , Harry will be serving as the fifth Triwizard judge in Harry 's place .

After the rest of the Weasley children and Hermione show up , Harry tells Mrs Weasley that everything Skeeter wrote on Hermione was a lie .
After dinner , Mr Bagman takes the champions to the maze and Harry , who are tied for first place , are sent in first .

Harry successfully navigates the maze with the aid of the Four-Point Spell .
Harry gets past both a Blast-Ended-Skrewt and a Boggart disguised as a Dementor .
Along the way , Harry hears Fleur scream .
Harry rescues Cedric , who has been attacked by a cursed Krum ; Harry manages to stun Krum and sends out a signal for Krum to be rescued before Harry and Cedric move on .
Harry manages to pass a sphinx and , as Harry approaches the Cup , is attacked by an Acromantula .
Aided by Cedric , Harry defeats it , though one of Harry 's legs is injured in the process .
After taking the monster out , they decide to grab the Cup simultaneously .
Unbeknownst to them , the Cup is actually a Portkey that transports them to an old cemetery in the village of Little Hangleton .

Just as Harry are trying to figure out what happened , a stranger appears and Harry 's scar begins hurting again .
A second voice orders the stranger to kill Cedric , which he does , leaving Harry frozen with shock and horror .
Harry is then dragged to a large marble tombstone with the name Tom engraved upon it .
The stranger then tightly bound Harry tightly with thick black cords from arm , wrists , legs , neck to ankle to it and has Harry gagged .

Unable to escape , Harry recognises the stranger as Peter Pettigrew due to the missing finger on Harry 's right hand .
Harry also notes that Pettigrew is carrying what appears to be a deformed infant .
Pettigrew takes some of Harry 's blood , bone dust from Tom 's grave , and puts them in a cauldron .
He then cuts off his own right hand , at the orders of the strange creature , and places it in a cauldron .
The creature is revealed to be none other than Tom himself , and the potion made by Pettigrew returns him his powers stronger than before .

Tom forces Wormtail to take out Tom 's bleeding arm to activate the Dark Mark and summon the Death Eaters .
While in wait , Tom tells Harry that after Tom 's father abandoned Tom and Tom 's Molly upon finding out that Tom 's Molly was a witch , Tom 's Molly died giving birth to Tom and Tom was raised in a Muggle orphanage .
Tom later sought revenge by murdering Tom 's father .

After his Death Eaters arrive , Tom spends time criticising them for failing to seek Tom out during these last thirteen years , even though they knew that Tom had found a way to escape mortal death .
Tom believes they feared a power greater than Tom 's , like that of Albus , which is why they slipped back into normal wizarding society and claimed they were never loyal to Tom .
Tom then rewards Wormtail for aiding with Tom 's rebirth by creating a new silver hand for Tom .

Tom identifies more Death Eaters , including Lucius , and announces Lucius 's plans for rebuilding Lucius 's army and punish the Death Eaters that have deserted Lucius .
Tom answers Lucius 's question about how Lucius had returned by explaining the protection spell that Lily Potter provided Harry when she died .
That is what originally caused Lucius 's downfall and provided Harry with protection from Lucius , but now that they share the same blood , Tom is free to touch Harry .
Tom then reveals that Tom fled deep into an Albanian forest , barely alive and without a proper body , surviving by possessing animals until Quirinus showed up and let Tom share Tom 's body .
Following Tom 's failure to obtain Philosopher , Tom returned to Albania with little hope of getting a corporeal body again .

After fleeing the country following the events of Harry 's third year , Wormtail learned of Tom 's continued existence from other rats .
Wormtail went to seek Tom , and during his journey , he ran into Bertha Jorkins .
He delivered her to Tom and , through torturing her , Tom found out about the Triwizard Tournament .
Tom also discovered that a faithful Death Eater servant was still alive after breaking a memory charm that had been placed on Jorkins .

With Wormtail 's help , Tom was able to regain a body of Tom 's own and some of Tom 's powers and return to Britain .
There , Tom plotted Harry 's abduction and kidnapping , knowing that Harry 's blood would remove Harry 's own Molly 's protection .
Tom reveals that this servant who is at Hogwarts has ensured that Harry would win the tournament and be brought to the graveyard .
Tom then frees the injured and weakened Harry and orders Harry to face Harry in a duel , wishing to prove who among the two is stronger in front of Harry 's minions now that there is no one around to protect Harry .

Tom challenges Harry to a duel .
After Harry refuses to bow to the Dark Lord , Tom uses the Imperius Curse on Harry to force Tom to .
Though Harry gives in the first time , the second time Harry manages to shake the curse off , much to the astonishment of the Death Eaters present .

When the duel begins , something miraculous happens .
Tom and Harry 's wands are `` brothers '' , due to the fact that their wand 's cores are both feathers from the same Phoenix .
As the wands spells meet in the air and interlock , a '' Priori Incantatem '' effect occurs .
This causes the spirit echoes of Tom 's victims , including Harry 's parents , to spill out from Harry 's wand .
The echoes momentarily protect Harry , allowing Harry to grab the portkey and escape to Hogwarts with Cedric 's body .

When he arrives back at the school , many of the students begin to scream when they see Cedric 's body .
During the confusion , where an exhausted Harry tries to tell Albus what happened , Harry is ushered away by Moody while Albus are busy with Cedric 's parents .
Moody takes Harry to his office , where Harry sits in shock and Moody gives him a potion to bring him around .
As Moody probes Harry for information , Harry says he believes that Karkaroff is the faithful servant that Tom mentioned .
Moody reveals that when the Dark Mark was activated , Karkaroff fled Hogwarts , since he had betrayed the Death Eaters and could never go back to them .

After Moody reveals he knows that Harry was taken to the graveyard and that he is angry that Tom did not try to torture the Death Eaters that had abandoned him , Tom tells Harry that Harry was responsible for putting Harry 's name in the Goblet of Fire under a different school .
Tom purposely tipped off Rubeus about the dragons so Rubeus could show Harry and gave Harry a hint for beating the first task .
Tom gave Cedric the clue to the egg for the second task , knowing that Cedric would tell Harry .
Moody 's original plan was to have Harry use Neville 's herbology book to learn about the gillyweed , but since Harry would not ask for help , Moody purposely set up the conversation with Minerva about gillyweed so Dobby would get it from Snape 's office .
Moody also reveals that he was responsible for helping Harry in the third task by dealing with the obstacles , stunning Fleur , and bewitching Krum to take out Cedric .

Moody attempts to kill Harry to please Harry 's master , but before Harry has the chance , Minerva-Albus burst in and Albus stuns Harry .
Albus tells Harry this man is not Alastor Moody , which Albus realised when Moody took Harry from Albus , something the real Moody would never do .
Albus sends Snape to get a potion and fetch Winky ; he also sends Minerva to tell a large black dog Minerva would find at the pumpkin patch to go to his office .
He then opens Moody 's trunk and finds the real Alastor Moody inside the seventh compartment .

Albus discovers that the impostor has been using the Polyjuice Potion to disguise himself as Alastor Moody all year , keeping the real Moody alive so he could use his hair as an ingredient , though he suspects in the excitement of tonight the imposter forgot to take his most recent dosage .
They wait until the effects wear off , revealing that the imposter is Bartemius .
just as Minerva arrive .

Under the effects of Snape 's Veritaserum , Crouch Jr is asked by Albus how he escaped Azkaban .
Crouch Jr confesses that his father , Barty Crouch Snr and his Molly helped him escape Azkaban .
His Molly was dying , and it was his Molly 's wish that he could escape , so Bartemius and his Molly switched places using the Polyjuice Potion .
Mrs died and was buried disguised as him , while Crouch Snr had a private funeral for Mrs 's to conceal the truth .

Barty Crouch Snr put the Imperius Curse on his son to make sure he was controlled and out of sight .
Bertha Jorkins found out when she came to their house on business while Crouch Snr was not home , forcing Crouch Snr to place a Memory Charm on her ; this permanently damaged her memory .
After Winky persuaded her master to let his son go to the Quidditch World Cup , they arranged to use an Invisibility cloak to hide Crouch Jr as he sat in the Top Box .
During this event , Crouch Jr secretly fought the curse and stole Harry 's wand when Winky was n't looking .
When the Death Eaters showed up and disrupted the tournament , Bartemius was angry that they were n't loyal to Tom .
After regaining control Tom used Harry 's wand to summon the Dark Mark , which scared the Death Eaters away .
Tom father fired Winky for failing to watch Tom and almost letting Tom escape .
Tom then found Tom and took Tom home .

Eventually , thanks to Tom were able to find Crouch Jr and release him from his father 's imprisonment .
Learning from Bertha about Alastor Moody becoming a teacher at Hogwarts , he and Wormtail captured Moody , allowing Crouch Jr to be planted at Hogwarts as Moody , with Wormtail keeping an eye on Crouch .
He kept Moody alive not only to maintain his disguise , but also learned about his habits so he could fool Albus .

It is revealed that Crouch Jr was the Barty Crouch Harry saw on the Marauder 's Map , stealing potions ingredients from Snape 's office to continue making the Polyjuice Potion .
Eventually , Crouch started to fight off the Imperius curse placed upon him and was then kept under home imprisonment by Wormtail under the pretence of being unwell .
He managed to escape and travel to Hogwarts to warn Albus of his son 's existence .
However , using the Marauder 's Map , Crouch Jr was able to intercept and kill him .
He then transfigured his father 's body into a bone and buried it in Rubeus 's yard .
Crouch Jr , as Moody , then offered to take the Triwizard Cup into the maze so he could turn it into a Portkey and complete his master 's plan .

Albus takes Harry to Harry 's office to meet Sirius , but not before placing Minerva in charge of Crouch Jr He also sends Snape to take Moody to the Hospital Wing and bring Cornelius up to Moody 's office .

Once in Harry tells Albus-Sirius everything .
Albus explains the Priori Incantatem effect and says that the spirits that appeared were echoes of Tom 's most recent victims .
After Sirius transforms back into a dog they head to the Hospital Wing , where Harry is given a Sleeping Potion to help Harry relax .

Upon waking up , he , along with Molly-William , hear a large argument .
Fudge summoned a Dementor as protection when he went to confront Crouch Jr , which sucked out Crouch Jr 's soul before he , Minerva-Albus entered the hospital wing .
Albus is upset that Minerva-Albus lost a key piece of evidence on Tom 's return , while Fudge believes the man was a lunatic and that his testimony would not have been useful .

Due to reading Rita Skeeter 's last article about Harry being dangerous , Fudge can not accept Harry 's testimony , nor does Harry believe Albus 's information about Harry 's scar .
Harry gets up and tries to identify the Death Eaters whose names Harry heard earlier , but Fudge points out they were cleared long ago and Harry might have read this out of an old Daily Prophet article .
Fudge is offended by Albus 's suggestions of removing the Dementors from Azkaban and sending an envoy to make an agreement with the giants .
Even after Snape reveals his Dark Mark and explains that Tom had summoned him , Fudge thinks it is some kind of a ploy and makes it clear that he is going to have a serious talk with Albus about his position before he leaves .
He then exits the room , but not before he gives Harry Harry 's winnings from the Tournament .

William leaves at Albus 's request to inform William 's father of the situation and have William discreetly contact those within the Ministry that can be convinced of the truth .
Minerva is sent to retrieve Rubeus and Madame Maxime for a mission .
After Poppy is sent to look after Winky , Albus has Sirius revert to Albus 's true form .
Both Mrs Weasley and Snape are surprised by his presence , but are quickly convinced of his innocence .
Albus dispatches Sirius to reinstate the Order of the Phoenix by gathering known wizards and witches who would support their side .
Harry then regrets asking Cedric to grab the Triwizard cup with him , and then uses the last of the potion to return to sleep .

After a few days of rest , Harry meets with Cedric 's parents .
They do not blame him for what happened and are thankful to have his body , but decline Harry 's offer of the winnings .
Harry is able to have a relaxing time , due to Albus having made a formal request for the students to not talk about what happened that night , though some students are still unsettled due to Rita Skeeter 's article .

Rubeus gives the trio a good lecture on how Tom 's return was inevitable and all they can do now is fight .
Rubeus mentions that what Albus has assigned for Albus is top secret and that Madam Maxime might be accompanying Albus .

During the End-of-Term Feast , a memorial feast for Cedric is held , where Albus tells the school what has happened in the graveyard despite the Ministry 's wishes that Albus keep it secret .
Afterwards , everyone is packed and ready to leave .
Fleur both say good-bye to the trio before Fleur head back to Fleur schools , while the trio take their carriage to Hogwarts .

As Harry-Ronald-Hermione ride to King 's Cross Station , Harry-Ronald-Hermione learn that the Daily Prophet is not reporting Cedric Diggory 's death , likely due to the Ministry 's interference .
Hermione reveals that Hermione has discovered that Rita Skeeter is an unregistered animagus who can turn into a beetle .
Hermione caught Skeeter in a jar in the hospital wing after the third task .
As the three think back , they realise that there was a bug on the statue the night of the Yule Ball where Rubeus told Madame Maxime his secret , that Krum found a bug in Hermione 's hair after the Second Task , and that there was a bug on the window that day in Divination when Harry 's scar hurt .
They also realise that the reason why Rita got those interviews from Draco and Pansy Parkinson undetected was that they knew she was an animagus ; Harry recalled Draco sitting by a tree that day talking while holding a bug .
Hermione assures Harry-Ronald that her stories will trouble them no longer , since she told Rita that if the stories continued , she would tell the Ministry about her secret .

Just as Draco arrive and taunt Harry over Tom 's return , Draco are rendered unconscious from hexes used by both the trio and Fred and George Weasley .
Harry-Ronald then began kicking , rolling , and pushing the unconscious Draco , Crabbe , and Goyle into a spot where they will be out of the way .
Soon another mystery is solved : The person that Fred and George were hinted to have been blackmailing was Ludo Bagman .
When the twins won Harry-Ronald 's bet , he paid Harry-Ronald Harry-Ronald 's winnings at the Quidditch World Cup in Leprechaun gold and would n't even return Harry-Ronald 's original wager .
This is also why he tried to avoid Harry-Ronald in public when Harry-Ronald confronted him .

The twins reveal that Bagman has a long-time problem with gambling and he was also in debt to the goblins , who took his money after the World Cup and followed him to Hogwarts .
Bagman made a bet that Harry would win the tournament to get Harry 's money back , which is why Harry was trying to help Harry cheat .
However , since Harry and Cedric actually `` tied '' for first place , Bagman has gone on the run .
As they get off the train and step and leave Draco and Harry gives the twins Harry 's Triwizard Winnings to help them with their dream of running a joke shop .
Everyone then say their good-byes as Harry prepares to leave with Vernon .

