Harry spends another summer holiday with the Dursley in mid-1993 , and things have n't been that easy for Harry .
Over the summer , Dursley have forbidden Harry to talk to any of the neighbours out of fear of Harry exposing Harry 's magical abilities .
The separation from Harry 's magical supplies -LRB- e.g. Harry 's wand , Harry 's broomstick , spellbooks , etc. -RRB- have become a real problem for Harry , too , because Harry 's teachers at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry have given Harry a lot of summer homework .
Harry has seized the opportunity to start it a week after Harry 's arrival home by sneaking some of Harry 's books upstairs and hiding them in Harry 's room while Dudley-Petunia go out to admire Vernon 's new company car .
None of Dursley have noticed Harry studying magic every night since then , and Harry has been very careful to avoid trouble with them , for Harry 's aunt and uncle have already been in a bad mood with Harry due to a telephone call they got from their nephew 's best friend at Ronald Ronald , about which Vernon has furiously confronted Harry , even though Harry does n't know how Ronald got their home number .
The incident must have simply made Ronald warn Hermione not to call , as Harry received no word from them afterwards .
The only improvement in Harry 's relationship to Dursley that gets changed is that they have given Harry permission to let Hedwig out at night with a promise not to use her to send letter to Ronald or Hermione , since Vernon could n't take the screeching racket she makes while bored if she gets locked in her cage all the time .

On 31 July -LRB- Harry 's thirteenth birthday -RRB- , after midnight , Harry receives gifts and letters from Ronald-Hermione-Rubeus , each wishing Harry a happy birthday and sending Harry a gift .
According to Ronald , Arthur , won a '' Daily Prophet '' Prize Draw for seven hundred galleons and has used it to take the Weasley to Egypt to visit William , with the remainder being used to provide Ronald with a new wand to replace the one that was broken last year .
Harry also learns that Percy is entering Percy 's seventh year at Hogwarts and has been named Head Boy .
According to Hermione , Hermione and Hermione 's parents are currently spending the holiday in France .
Also , both Ronald and Hermione mention in their letters they will be in London on the last week before term to pick up their school supplies and want Harry to join them .
Rubeus hints in Rubeus 's letter the book Rubeus sent Harry will come in handy next term but Rubeus wants the reason for it to be a surprise until the term starts .
Another letter from Minerva arrives , saying that third years are allowed to visit the village of Hogsmeade and that their guardian needs to sign the permission form in order for them to do so .

When Harry awakes the next morning , Harry goes downstairs hoping to watch TV .
Unfortunately for Harry , Harry finds Harry 's Vernon and Dudley already watching the news and sits down with them unnoticed as the channel 's anchorman is halfway through the report on word from the Muggle Prime Minister out on the London streets of an escaped convict , Sirius , who Vernon comments looks like Harry came from an asylum rather than a prison .
This is obviously because the mental state of Black 's gaunt face and elbow-length hair is almost like comparing Harry to Harry , who luckily feels well groomed .
The reporter then transitions to his report on the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries ' announcement without implying beforehand which prison or asylum Black has escaped from , much to Vernon 's confusion .

Nonetheless , Vernon announces to the family that Vernon 's sister , -LSB- -LSB- Marjorie | Marjorie `` Marge '' Dursley -RSB- -RSB- , is coming to visit for a week .
Harry agrees to behave normally during her visit , if Harry 's uncle will sign Harry 's permission form and has to send Hedwig to Percy-Ronald-Arthur-William for the week due to Marge not knowing that Harry is a wizard .
On the final night , when she calls James , a lazy good for nothing drunk , Harry loses Harry 's temper and accidentally inflates her .
She explodes and Harry decides to take Harry 's school things and run away , fearing Harry will almost certainly be expelled from Hogwarts , after using magic outside school .

He reaches Magnolia Crescent and sees a Sirius staring at him .
In Harry Harry falls and the Knight Bus , a triple-decker bus designed for wizard transportation , arrives .
The dog vanishes and is nowhere in sight .
Harry meets the Knight Bus 's conductor , Stan Shunpike and the driver , Ernie Prang .
Harry departs on the Knight Bus to the Leaky Cauldron in London .
Harry learns from the Daily Prophet , Sirius , the same convict and a follower of Tom , broke out of Azkaban , the first person to ever do so .
Sirius was imprisoned for murdering thirteen people with a single curse in 1981 , right after James-Harry-Ginevra 's murder .
At the Leaky Cauldron , Harry meets the Minister for Magic , Cornelius , in person , though Harry has to pretend that Harry does n't know Harry since Harry-Ronald were technically breaking school rules during Harry-Ronald 's previous school year when Harry-Ronald saw Harry in Rubeus 's Hut .
After explaining that Marge has been restored to normal and her memory modified , to Harry 's surprise , Fudge does n't take any action against Harry stating that accidental uses of magic do n't count as violations of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery .
Fudge books a room for Harry , where Harry will stay for the rest of the summer , but refuses to sign Harry 's Hogsmeade permission slip .

Harry spends the rest of the holidays in Diagon Alley , purchasing Harry 's school things and making sure not to make any unnecessary purchases .
On the last day of the holidays , Harry meets up with Ronald , Hermione and the rest of Percy-Ronald-Arthur-William who are also staying at the Leaky Cauldron .
When Hermione decides to spend Hermione 's birthday money on a magical pet , to Hermione purchases a cat named Crookshanks , who harasses Ronald 's pet rat Scabbers .
At some point during the night , Harry overhears a conversation between Ronald 's parents , Arthur and Molly Weasley .
From what Ronald hears , Ronald learns that when Tom met his downfall , Black lost everything , and is now trying to kill Harry .
Harry realises that Fudge let Harry off because Harry was relieved to find Harry alive .
Harry is unconcerned about Black , doubting that the escapee could harm Harry at Hogwarts , with headmaster Albus around .

The next day , shortly before he boards the Hogwarts Express , Arthur tried to warn him about Black and makes him promise not to go looking for Black no matter what Arthur hears .
Harry tells Harry that Harry already knows because Harry heard Mr and Mrs Weasley talking about it earlier .
Harry is also confused and asks why Harry would go looking for somebody who wanted to kill Harry .
On the train , Harry-Ronald-Hermione share a compartment with Remus , the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher .
After several hours , the train stops and a sinister , cloaked figure enters .
It sucks the happiness out of Harry , who faints .
The creature then approaches Harry , possibly to kiss him , until Lupin drives it off with a spell .

After Harry recovers , Lupin hands Harry and the others some chocolate and explains that the creature was a Dementor , one of the Azkaban Guards , and that they were searching the train for Sirius .
At Hogwarts , Draco taunts Harry over Harry 's reaction to the Dementor .
After getting inside , Minerva calls Harry-Hermione to Minerva 's and takes Harry-Hermione to Minerva 's office .
Once there , Minerva reveals that Lupin had informed Minerva 's by Owl Post of Harry 's adverse reaction to the Dementor and wants Harry looked at by Poppy to see if Harry 's ill .
The matron confirms that Harry 's fine .
After Minerva 's business with Hermione is concluded , they return to the Great Hall to find that they missed the sorting ceremony .
Albus announces the two changes in staffing during the year : Lupin , and Rubeus , who has been made the Care of Magical Creatures teacher due to the retirement of Professor Kettleburn .
Albus also announces that Dementors are to be stationed around the school as a precaution against Black .

Lessons start the next day .
Harry , Ronald and Hermione head to the North Tower for their first Divination lesson .
They meet Sybill Trelawney and predict future events using tea leaves .
Harry sees a black dog in Harry 's tea cup , which Trelawney identifies as the Grim , the omen of death .
This worries Harry , as Harry remembers the black dog Harry saw when Harry ran away .
In their next lesson , Minerva assures Harry that Trelawney has predicted the deaths of a number of students , none of whom have died .
In their Care of Magical Creatures lesson , Rubeus teaches them about hippogriffs -LRB- horse/eagle creatures -RRB- .

Although initially nervous , Harry successfully approaches and rides a grey hippogriff named Buckbeak .
Later in the lesson , Draco , who had not been listening to Rubeus 's lecture , insults Buckbeak , causing it to slash his arm with its talons .
He is taken to the hospital wing , and Rubeus fears that he will take the blame for letting Buckbeak attack Draco , even though Draco provoked it in the first place .
Harry and Harry 's friends offer to help him clear Buckbeak .
This makes Rubeus sober up and finally notice that Harry 's there .
Rubeus angrily tells Harry off for leaving the castle after dark and escorts the trio back to Gryffindor Tower personally .

Later in the week , in Potions , Draco returns with a heavily bandaged arm .
Although it is implied that Draco is exaggerating the seriousness of the injury , there is no way to prove it .
Harry learns that Black has been sighted near Hogwarts .
During the lesson , Draco hints that Black may be connected to Harry 's past .
In Defence against the Dark Arts , Lupin teaches the third years about Boggarts , shape-shifters that take the shape of a person 's worst fear .
The class then take on the Boggart , forcing it to assume a shape they find amusing .
When it comes to Harry 's turn Harry is sure the Boggart will turn into a Dementor but Lupin jumps in and repels the Boggart for Harry .
Faced by Lupin , the Boggart takes the shape of a bright glowing orb .
Harry is disappointed that Lupin does not let Harry fight the Boggart , thinking that Lupin feels Harry is not up to the task .

In October , the Gryffindor Quidditch team practises hard for the upcoming Quidditch season , especially since this is their team captain Oliver Wood 's final year at Hogwarts .
Oliver believes that despite the misfortune which occurred during the previous two years their team should be able to win the Quidditch Cup before he graduates .
Third years are also visiting Hogsmeade on Hallowe'en , and only Harry is not allowed , because his uncle did not sign his permission form .
Harry spends the day in Lupin 's office , drinking tea with Harry .
Lupin tells Harry that Harry did not let Harry face the Boggart because Harry did not want the Boggart to become Tom .
Shortly afterwards , Snape appears with a mysterious potion for Lupin .
Lupin claims to simply have an illness that is aided by the potion .

A few hours later , Ronald and Hermione return .
They reach the portrait of The and see it slashed and that The is gone .
Peeves reveals that he saw her fleeing through another portrait after Sirius attacked her for not letting him into Gryffindor Tower .
Albus-Percy-Argus seek her out .

Every student is moved in the Great Hall to sleep while teachers search the castle .
They fail to find any sign of Black , and Snape suggests that someone inside the castle helped Black gain entry .
Albus refutes this argument .

Nobody talks about anything but Sirius for the next few days .
The refuses to return to work until Black is caught .
Because of this , Albus is forced to replace her with Sir Cadogan the Mad Knight .
Nobody is happy about this both because Albus changes the password twice a day and because Albus 's for the most part annoying but there 's nothing they can do because none of the other pictures wanted the job because of what happened to The .

Meanwhile , because of the attack , an annoyed Harry gets place under surveillance : Teachers find excuses to go down the halls with him , Percy , acting on his mother 's orders , follows him everywhere like a guard dog .
Minerva decides to reveal the truth to Harry but Harry reveals he already knows Black 's after him .
Minerva explains that 's why Minerva does n't want him practising Quidditch in the evenings but Harry states he 's got to train .
Minerva agrees and decides to ask Madam Hooch to be present .

Gryffindor 's first Quidditch match is coming up , but due to Draco 's injury , Slytherin can not play .
Gryffindor plays Hufflepuff instead .
On the day before the match , Lupin becomes ill and Snape teaches his classes for him .
Oddly , he ignores Lupin 's syllabus and instead gives a lesson on werewolves and assigns the class to write an essay on werewolves .

During the match , it is raining badly and Harry sees a large black dog resembling the Grim in the topmost empty row of seats in the Quidditch stadium .
Dementors enter the match causing Harry to faint and fall from Harry 's broomstick .
Harry realises that the screaming Harry had been hearing during Harry 's Dementor-induced fainting spells is Harry 's mother in her last moments .

Albus saves Harry , but Albus 's Nimbus 2000 broomstick flies into the Whomping Willow and is destroyed .
Hufflepuff win the match shortly afterwards .
After the match , Harry wakes up in the Hospital Wing and learns what happened , including that Oliver Wood has declined Hufflepuff captain Cedric Diggory 's offer for a rematch .

Alarmed by the adverse effects the Dementors have on him , Poppy insists that Harry stay in the hospital wing for the rest of the weekend .
The following week , Lupin is back teaching class and states that the class does n't have to write the essay Snape assigned for them , though Hermione has finished Hermione .
After class , Harry goes to Lupin wondering why the Dementors affect Harry so much .
Lupin explains that Dementors are fear itself and they pull forth the horrors from a person 's past , which is why just before Harry faints , Harry hears Harry 's mother screaming before she dies and why the Dementors affect Harry worse than anyone else .
Harry asks Lupin if Harry can give Harry private lessons on the spell to drive off Dementors in case another one arrives at a Quidditch match .
Lupin says he will , but after the Christmas holidays , citing his frequent illness .

Hufflepuff is defeated by Ravenclaw in their next Quidditch match , which gives the Gryffindor team a chance in the running for the Quidditch Cup .
Harry , who uses an old school broom in training sessions , is busy looking to obtain a new broomstick for himself so Gryffindor can stand a chance in their remaining matches .

During the last weekend before the holidays , while the eligible students visit Hogsmeade , Harry is yet again not able to go .
To bring some Christmas cheer to Harry reveal Harry know secret passages in and out of Hogwarts .
Harry give Harry the Marauder 's Map as a Christmas present and instruct him on how to use it .
It shows Hogwarts ' secret passages , corridors , classrooms , offices , common rooms , etc. , as well as every person 's location within the castle and the grounds .

Harry uses the Marauder 's Map to sneak into Hogsmeade .
He then meets Ronald and Hermione in Honeydukes , where they were discussing what kind of sweets to get Harry .
They visit Broomstick , a pub run by Madam Rosmerta .
When Cornelius-Minerva-Filius-Rubeus arrive , Harry hides underneath their table to avoid being seen .
The trio overhears a conversation between the group and Madam Rosmerta , in which they discuss how Sirius is a close childhood friend of James , and that he is Harry 's godfather .
The group goes on to talk about James-Harry-Ginevra learned how Tom had marked James-Harry-Ginevra for death by Albus , who had been tipped off by a spy .
Albus had advised James-Harry-Ginevra to go into hiding using the Fidelius Charm , a concealment charm so powerful it can only be broken if the Secret Keeper , the person the spell is bound to , reveals it to the person the witch or wizard does n't want to be found by .
James insisted on using Sirius despite Albus offering to be his family 's Secret Keeper due to fearing that a friend of the Potters ' had turned traitor and joined Tom as a spy because Tom trusted Black beyond all Tom 's other friends .
One week later , Black sold out James-Harry-Ginevra to Tom , who met Tom 's downfall in Harry .
Ths forced Black to run for it .
Peter Pettigrew , another of James 's friends , confronted Black for the betrayal and he and twelve Muggles were killed by Black with a single curse .
Black was taken to Azkaban afterwards .
It 's also revealed that Black is n't affected by the Dementors at all .
After they leave , Ronald-Hermione stare at a devastated Harry .

Harry is depressed both about the truth about Sirius and that no one bothered to tell Harry before .
Harry is also continuing to have nightmares about Dementors and Harry 's mother screaming .
During the start of the holidays , Ronald-Hermione try to console Harry but Harry chooses to go to Rubeus 's house to ask Harry about Sirius despite Ronald and Hermione 's protests .
When the trio arrives at his house , they find him distraught about Buckbeak 's upcoming hearing before the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures , and Harry decides it is better not to bring Sirius up .

Rubeus reveals that Rubeus had a horrible experience with the Dementors during Rubeus 's brief time in Azkaban .
Rubeus ca n't set Buckbeak free without the risk of being sent back there .
The trio then decides to help Rubeus prepare Rubeus 's defence for Buckbeak 's case .

For Christmas , among his other presents , Harry receives the best model Broomstick ever released : the Firebolt .
Hermione is not happy when Hermione learns that it came without a note , and is driven out of Harry and Ronald 's dormitory after Crookshanks attacks Scabbers again .
During Christmas dinner , Hermione reports the mystery gift to Minerva , who sends it away to have it tested for tampering .
Both Hermione and Minerva suspect Black might have sent the broomstick and that it could be jinxed .

Harry ceases speaking with Hermione , even though Harry knew she had good intentions with reporting the Firebolt .
Ronald is also no longer on speaking terms with Hermione because Crookshanks has been attacking Scabbers non-stop .
Meanwhile , Harry starts Harry 's lessons with Lupin .
Lupin tells Harry that the spell to drive off Dementors is called the Patronus Charm , instructs Harry in how to cast one , and lets Harry practise on a Boggart .
Harry fails to produce a Patronus at first .
This , however , is to be expected ; the Patronus Charm is well beyond O.W.L. standard .
During Harry learns that Lupin was a friend of Harry 's father James back during their days at Hogwarts , and also knew Sirius as well .

In January , Slytherin beats Ravenclaw in their Quidditch match .
Gryffindor 's chances of getting the Quidditch Cup are good , as long as they do n't lose in their own match against Ravenclaw .

By February , Harry becomes quite good at producing a Patronus after a few lessons , but does n't master it entirely .
At the end of a lesson , Lupin explains the concept of a Dementor 's Kiss and reveals that it will be Black 's punishment , as an article in the Daily Prophet confirmed that the Ministry gave the Dementors permission to use the Kiss on Black when they find Harry .
While thinking about the horror of the punishment , Harry runs into Minerva on Harry 's way back to Gryffindor Tower .
Minerva gives Harry back the Firebolt , which has been proven not to be jinxed , and suggests that Harry practise with it before the match .
Harry meets up with Ronald and they decide to go make up with Hermione .
Outside Gryffindor Tower , they bump into Neville who 's in trouble because Harry lost a list .
After the pair let Harry in , Neville tells Harry-Ronald that Harry made a list of the passwords for Gryffindor Tower because Sir Cadogan is still changing Harry-Ronald twice a day but somehow Harry-Ronald got lost .
Harry attempts to patch things up with Hermione but Scabbers disappears after Harry-Ronald arrive at Gryffindor Tower , ruining any chance for Ronald and Hermione 's reconciliation .

As March arrives , a new Quidditch match approaches : Gryffindor vs. Ravenclaw .
Harry spends the last practise session before the match getting used to Harry 's Firebolt .
During the game , just as Harry is about to catch the Snitch , Cho Chang , a fourth year Seeker for the Ravenclaw team , screams .
Harry looks around and sees three Dementors in the stands .
Harry reacts instantly , sending a full-fledged Patronus at the Dementors .
Harry catches the Snitch before Cho Chang , winning the match .

Lupin compliments Harry on Harry 's Patronus and shows Harry that the `` Dementors '' were really Vincent-Marcus-Gregory-Draco , the Slytherin team captain , trying to sabotage Harry .
A furious Minerva takes fifty points away from Slytherin and sentences all four of them to detention as punishment .
The Gryffindors celebrate until Minerva tells them to go to bed .
But Ronald still refuses to reconcile with Hermione

That night , Ronald wakes up to Sirius slashing Ronald 's bed curtains in the boys ' dormitory .
Everyone thinks it might be a nightmare but the curtains are indeed ripped and Sir Cadogan proves Ronald right beyond any reasonable doubt when he happily admits he let Sirius into Gryffindor Tower .
Black apparently had the whole week 's passwords on a piece of paper .
A furious Minerva demands to know who wrote down the passwords and lost them , to which Neville admits to being the perp .

Another search of the castle takes place , but Black evades capture again .
Tighter security is put in place : Filius is teaching the doors to recognise Sirius while Argus boards up everything Black can use to sneak in except the passageway into Hogsmeade .
Sir Cadogan is fired and The resumes her duty guarding Gryffindor Tower on the condition her portrait is to be guarded .
Ronald becomes an instant celebrity , which Ronald enjoys .
Neville , on the other hand , is in complete disgrace : Minerva is so furious with Ronald that Minerva strips him of Ronald 's visitation rights to Hogsmeade for the rest of the school year , gives Ronald a detention and forbids the other Gryffindors to tell Ronald the password .
Augusta , sends Ronald a Howler two days later .

Rubeus sends a letter to Harry , telling Harry that Harry and Ronald are to meet Ronald in the entrance hall so Ronald can take them to Ronald 's hut for tea .
Other than learning that Buckbeak 's trial is that week , Harry-Ronald learn that Rubeus wants to talk to Harry-Ronald on behalf of Hermione .
Rubeus mentions their feud has been hurting Hermione more than they think , and that Hermione is only concerned about protecting Harry from Sirius .
Despite Ronald 's anger reignites when Hermione threatens to tell Minerva about the Marauder 's Map , which Harry plans to use to sneak into Hogsmeade during the upcoming trip that Saturday .

While on the trip that weekend , Harry using his Invisibility Cloak to make a few stops with Ronald before visiting the Shrieking Shack , a house that is supposedly filled with violent ghosts .
Vincent-Gregory-Draco show up there and provoke Ronald .
Harry , using Harry 's cloak , attacks the trio and Draco catches a glimpse of Harry 's head .
Draco later reports the incident to Severus , who interrogates Harry after Draco returns from Hogsmeade .
Severus finds the Marauder 's Map , but is not able to discover what it does and is instead bombarded by insults from the map 's makers .
Lupin is summoned and claims ignorance about the map , and Ronald shows up to and claims the map is a Zonko product that insults anyone who touches it .
Afterwards , Lupin brings Harry-Ronald to the entrance hall , where Ronald confiscates the map and reprimands Harry for not handing in something that could aid in Black 's capture .
Ronald also scolds Ronald for risking Ronald 's life to sneak into Hogsmeade , thus undervaluing Ronald 's parent 's sacrifice .

On their way back to Gryffindor Tower , Harry-Ronald find Hermione , who informs them that the Ministry has decided to execute Buckbeak despite the help she provided for Buckbeak 's defence .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue | Oliver | So you must catch it only if we 're more than fifty points up ... Only if we 're more than fifty points up , Harry , or we win the match but lose the Cup .
You 've got that , Have n't you ?
You must catch the Snitch only if we 're ... | Harry | I KNOW , OLIVER !
| Oliver constantly nagging Harry about the final Quidditch game -RCB- -RCB-

Buckbeak 's impending execution causes the friends to reconcile .
Ronald promises to help Hermione work on filing an appeal for Buckbeak 's case , since Harry will be too busy with Quidditch practise sessions for the final match .
After Draco mocks Rubeus during one of his classes , Hermione smacks Draco in the face .
Hermione then accidentally skips Charms .
In Divination , Hermione finally explodes and drops the class .

In May , the Quidditch final takes place : Gryffindor vs. Slytherin .
Gryffindor needs to be more than fifty points ahead before Harry can catch the Golden Snitch in order to win the Quidditch Cup .
On the morning of the match , Harry catches another glimpse of the dog , this time with Crookshanks .
In the match , Gryffindor take an early lead , and Slytherin resorts to cheating .
This helps the Gryffindor team to gain penalty shots and get further ahead .
Harry manages to catch the snitch at the right moment , allowing Gryffindor to come in first in the overall points and win the Quidditch Cup at last .

The students take their end-of-year exams in June .
Buckbeak 's appeal is scheduled on the final day of the exams .
After Harry 's Divination final , Trelawney issues a genuine prediction that Tom 's servant will return to him that night and Tom will once again rise to full power stronger than before .
Meanwhile , Buckbeak 's appeal fails .

That night , after Hermione retrieves Harry 's Invisibility Cloak from the one-eyed witch 's hump -LRB- where Harry hid it after Draco spotted Harry in Hogsmeade -RRB- , Harry-Ronald-Hermione use the cloak to go to Rubeus 's cabin to console Harry before Buckbeak is executed .
Hermione finds Scabbers in a milk jug and returns Harry to Ronald .
After the trio depart , Albus , Fudge , a representative of the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures , and the executioner , Walden Macnair , arrive .
Buckbeak is then apparently executed .

Shortly afterwards , Scabbers escapes from Ronald 's grasp .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione run after Ronald and spot the black dog and Crookshanks .
After Ronald catches Scabbers , the dog grabs Ronald by the arm and pulls Ronald in a passage under the Whomping Willow , breaking Ronald 's leg in the process .
Harry-Hermione follow after Harry-Hermione .
The passage leads Harry-Hermione to the Shrieking Shack , where Harry-Hermione find Sirius-Ronald .
Black turns out to be an unregistered Animagus whose animal form is a black dog ; he was the one who dragged Ronald down into the Shrieking Shack .

Harry manages to overpower and subdue Black , who admits that Harry is responsible for the death of Harry 's parents .
Remus then arrives and is accused by Hermione of being Black 's accomplice and a werewolf .
Hermione deduced this following Severus 's lesson on werewolves , since Lupin was always absent on nights of the full moon and Lupin 's Boggart turned into the moon .
Lupin admits that he is a werewolf , but denies the charge of helping Black .
He explains that he found out where Harry-Ronald-Hermione went through the Marauder 's Map , since he had helped to create it and knew that the three of them would visit Rubeus that night due to Buckbeak 's execution .
He also adds that he saw a supposedly dead person on the map with the trio ; Peter Pettigrew , who is also an Animagus and had been living for years as Scabbers .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione refuse to believe that Pettigrew is alive , pointing out that he was murdered by Black .
Black denies this , and Lupin convinces him to tell Harry the truth of what happened .
Lupin tells the story about his time at Hogwarts ; he had been bitten as a child , and Albus took precautions for his stay at Hogwarts , having the Shrieking Shack and the passage leading to it built to provide Lupin with a safe place to transform .
The Whomping Willow was planted on the entrance to the tunnel to prevent anyone from running into the transformed Lupin .
The rumours that the Hogsmeade residents started about the Shack being haunted by violent ghosts were allowed to spread to keep people from guessing that it was actually a werewolf making those sounds .

Eventually , Lupin 's friends , James-Sirius , discovered Lupin 's secret , and became Animagi to support him .
Sirius became a dog to keep Lupin under control with James , and Pettigrew became a rat so he could disable the Willow by scurrying under its branches and touching a certain spot on its trunk .
Lupin admits that he has not told Albus about Sirius being an Animagus , as it would have meant admitting that he had betrayed his trust and led three students into illegally becoming Animagi .
He also reveals the reason for Severus 's animosity towards Severus during the year : during their days at school , Sirius had played a near-fatal trick on Severus involving Lupin in Severus 's transformed form but James saved Severus .
Severus thought both of them were involved with Sirius 's trick .
Just then , Severus arrives using Harry 's Invisibility Cloak , which Harry had left at the foot of the Whomping Willow .

Severus arrives and tries to arrest Lupin and Black , but Harry-Ronald-Hermione , curious to hear the rest of the story , stun Severus .
Sirius reveals Severus broke out of Azkaban after seeing the Weasleys in Egypt in the Daily Prophet .
Severus saw Scabbers and immediately recognised it was Pettigrew in Severus 's Animagus form -LRB- Pettigrew was missing a finger , Scabbers was missing a toe -RRB- .
Severus searched for Pettigrew to kill Severus and avenge James-Harry-Ginevra ; Crookshanks helped , since Severus could tell that Scabbers was no rat and Black was no dog .
Sirius explains after Severus gained Crookshanks ' trust , Crookshanks helped Severus get into Gryffindor Tower by stealing Neville 's list of passwords .

According to Black , Pettigrew was James-Harry-Ginevra 's Secret-Keeper .
Peter , not Black , revealed the location of James-Harry-Ginevra 's hiding place to Tom .
Tom was a spy for Tom .
After Sirius confronted Pettigrew , who killed the twelve Muggles and faked Tom 's own death by cutting Tom 's finger and turning into a rat and escaping , thus framing Black for the crimes .
Sirius was innocent all along and means no harm to Harry-Ronald-Hermione .

Black and Lupin force Scabbers to turn into Pettigrew .
During Sirius explains the obvious reason why Pettigrew remained as a rat : he was afraid that Tom 's followers would try to kill him , thinking Pettigrew betrayed Tom .
Black also knows that Pettigrew only stayed with Percy-Ronald-Arthur-William to keep up on the news until he felt it was safe to find and rejoin his master .

Hermione asks how Sirius escaped .
He reveals that the knowledge that he was innocent kept him sane : it was not a happy thought , so the Dementors could not drain it from him .
He also often transformed into a dog , since Dementors can not affect animal emotions .
After learning where Pettigrew was and knowing Pettigrew would use the opportunity to capture Harry and regain favour with Harry 's allies , Black escaped while in Harry 's Animagus form .
At long last , Harry believes Black .
Pettigrew admits it 's all true and begs for mercy .

Before Sirius can kill Pettigrew , Harry stops Sirius , saying that James would not want James 's two best friends to become killers .
The group takes Pettigrew back to the grounds , where he will be handed to the Dementors .

Sirius-Harry talk about the former 's friendship with James-Harry-Ginevra , including that Sirius is Harry 's godfather .
Sirius tells Harry that Harry can choose to live with Harry if Harry wishes .
Harry quickly and happily agrees , knowing this would mean Harry would never have to the return to the Dursley .

Unfortunately , the full moon rises , causing Lupin , who had not taken his Wolfsbane Potion , to turn into a werewolf .
This allows Pettigrew to knock Ronald out , turn into a rat , and escape .
Harry-Hermione run after Lupin and Black -LRB- who has transformed into a dog -RRB- .
After seriously injuring Black , Lupin flees to the Forbidden Forest .
A hundred Dementors arrive and suck the happiness from Harry-Hermione and Black and attempt to perform a Kiss on them .
Before they all faint , Harry sees a familiar figure across the lake conjure a powerful stag-shaped Patronus that drives all the Dementors away .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione are taken to the Hospital Wing , and Black is taken to West Tower , where Ronald is sentenced to a Dementor 's Kiss .
When Albus arrives , Harry-Hermione try to tell him what actually happened , but Albus tells Harry-Ronald-Hermione that Albus can not save Black , as the evidence against Albus is too great .
Severus had lied about what happened earlier to Cornelius , and the Minister will not take the words of under-age students seriously .

Albus gives the group cryptic instructions and bids them good luck .
Hermione then reveals Hermione has a Time-Turner , a device that will take them back through time .
Minerva gave the device to Minerva 's during the Sorting on their first day back ; this explains why throughout the year , there had been occasions of Hermione taking multiple classes at the same time and apparently disappearing into thin air .

Harry and Hermione travel three hours into the past , watching themselves move through previous events .
They realise that Albus wanted them to travel three hours back to not only save Buckbeak from being wrongfully executed , but also to use Buckbeak to free Black from West Tower .
After narrowly rescuing Buckbeak at the right moment before Macnair can execute him -LRB- so Albus-Rubeus would not be accused of setting Buckbeak free -RRB- , Harry-Hermione hide near the Whomping Willow in the Forbidden Forest to wait for the `` other Harry and Hermione '' and everyone else to return from the Shrieking Shack .
During this time , Harry tells Hermione about the man he saw across the lake and how he thinks it was his father who conjured the Patronus .

After two hours , following Harry decides they need to head back to Rubeus 's empty cabin so Lupin does n't attack them .
After spending some time in hiding , Harry leaves the cabin to check out the present situation and sees Harry , Hermione , and Black fainting from Dementors .
Harry realises that the silver stag Harry saw earlier across the lake was not cast by Harry 's dad and conjures a powerful Patronus that drives all the Dementors away .
When it returns to Harry , Harry pets it and realises that it was the same Patronus as `` Prongs , '' Harry 's father .

After Hermione catch up , Hermione wait until Hermione see Macnair leave the castle to retrieve the Dementors .
He and Hermione then fly Buckbeak up to West Tower and rescue Black .
Sirius-Harry say Sirius-Harry 's goodbyes before Sirius flies away on Buckbeak .

-LCB- -LCB- dialogue a-b | Vernon | You have n't got a godfather !
| Harry | Yes , I have .
He was my mum and dad 's best friend .
He 's a convicted murderer , but he 's broken out of wizard prison and he 's on the run .
He likes to keep in touch with me , though ... keep up with my news ... check if I 'm happy ... | Harry telling Vernon about Sirius -RCB- -RCB-

Harry-Hermione make it back to the hospital wing just in time for Albus to magically lock the door .
Shortly afterwards , Severus bursts in , followed by Fudge and Albus , and accuses Harry of freeing Black .
Fudge assumes Severus is simply delirious because Severus 's chances of receiving the Order of Merlin have gone up in smoke .
Fudge leaves to inform the Daily Prophet of the news and agrees to remove the Dementors from Hogwarts , since the Dementors ' attempt to perform the Dementor 's Kiss on Harry proves them to be more harmful than helpful .
Shortly after they leave , Ronald wakes up from Ronald 's unconscious state .

The next day , while most of the other students are at Hogsmeade , the trio learns that Lupin is resigning because Severus told the Slytherin house Lupin 's secret .
Harry goes to see Lupin and is unable to sway Lupin 's mind , since Lupin does not want to risk endangering the students again .
Lupin confirms Harry 's suspicions that James 's Animagus form was indeed a stag .
Lupin then gives Harry Harry 's Invisibility Cloak back , along with the Marauder 's Map , and leaves with Albus to catch Harry 's carriage .

Later , while talking with Albus , Harry confesses that Harry feels bad for not letting Lupin and Black kill Pettigrew , realising that Harry was the servant that would aid with Tom 's return from Trelawney 's prophecy .
Albus reminds Harry that Harry saved Black , an innocent man , from a terrible fate .
Furthermore , Pettigrew owes a life debt to Harry for saving Harry , which Albus is sure will prove useful later on .
Before Albus leaves , Albus mentions that Harry has some of Harry 's father 's qualities , which is why Harry 's Patronus took the form of Prongs .
At the end-of-the-year feast , Gryffindor wins both the Quidditch Cup and the House Cup .

The students return to London aboard the Hogwarts Express .
Hermione mentions to Harry-Ronald that Hermione gave up the Time-Turner because it caused Hermione 's too much stress .
Hermione has decided to drop Muggle Studies so Hermione can have a normal schedule again .
Ronald announces that Ronald is planning to invite Harry to the Quidditch World Cup , since Ronald 's father can get them tickets from work .
Ronald also has a telephone that Ronald can use to contact Harry now .

A tiny owl from Black then arrives on the train with a letter .
In the letter , Black reveals that he is travelling far away from Hogwarts to avoid causing further problems and admits he bought Harry the Firebolt with Crookshanks ' help .
A separate section of the letter provides Harry with permission to visit Hogsmeade ; Harry knows Albus will accept it .
Sirius also mentions that the tiny owl is a gift for Ronald -LRB- later named Pigwidgeon by Ginevra -RRB- , since it is Black 's fault that Ronald no longer has a rat .

After arriving at King 's Cross , Ronald says Ronald will contact Harry about the finals of the Quidditch World Cup , and Harry heads back to Little Whinging with Vernon .
Harry is happy Harry now has a true family member to depend on and mentions to Vernon that Harry has a godfather who had escaped from wizard prison and likes to check up on Harry .

