Petunia-Vernon , with Dudley , are proud to say that Petunia-Vernon are the most normal people possible .
Petunia-Vernon happily occupy 4 Privet Drive , located in the Surrey County town of Little Whinging .
Vernon is the director of a drill company called Grunnings , while Petunia does housework and looks after Dudley , yet Petunia always spends so much time craning over garden fence to spy on the neighbours .
Despite all this , the Dursley are the least people anyone expects to be involved in anything funny or disturbing , for they do n't hold with such nonsense in their daily lives .
The story begins on a Tuesday 1 November , 1981 , where many absurd things happen .
When all three Dursley are gossiping happily at breakfast trying to wrestle Dudley in his high chair , none of them even notice a large tawny owl flutter pass their window .
It eventually comes to Vernon 's attention when Vernon is heading to work shortly afterwards , and sees a Minerva reading a map and later a street sign .
Vernon attempts to convince Vernon that these are merely coincidences .
Next , Vernon sees people in cloaks talking in hushed voices , and while Vernon is sitting in Vernon 's office , a flock of owls fly past Vernon 's window .
On Vernon Vernon goes to a bakery to get a bun and sees another group of extravagantly-cloaked figures .
Even though they are speaking in hushed voices , Vernon eavesdrops on some of their conversation , which includes a mention of '' '' the Potter and Harry . '' ''
Vernon finds this horrifying , because James-Harry-Lily are the family of Lily .
Vernon and Petunia will be embarrassed if people find out that they are related to them , as Potter are very strange , in their opinion .
When Vernon leaves Vernon 's workplace at the end of the day , Vernon bumps into a very small , cloaked man , who tells Vernon that someone named `` Tom '' has been defeated , and that even Muggles like Vernon should be celebrating .
Vernon does n't know what a Muggle is , but is offended that the man called Vernon one .

That night , when Vernon arrives at home , Vernon turns on the news and becomes suspicious when the newsman states that owls have been seen everywhere earlier in the day , and that fireworks have been spotted in Kent .
Vernon asks Petunia if Petunia and Petunia 's sister have been in touch , but Petunia becomes angry and denies it as Petunia does not like to talk about Petunia .
When Dursley go to bed , a long bearded old man in a purple cloak appears out of nowhere outside of their home .
The man , Albus , syphons all of the light from the street lamps with Albus 's Deluminator , then meets with the cat that Vernon had seen earlier that morning , who transforms into a whisky old woman named Minerva .
They quietly speak about the deaths of James-Lily at the hands of someone called `` Tom '' at the Potter cottage in the West Country village of Godric 's Hollow , and how Harry has miraculously survived the attack .
A few moments later , Sirius with a gigantic man , Rubeus , riding it lands right in front of them , carrying baby Harry .
He hands him over to Albus , who leaves the sleeping baby and a letter to Dursley on the doorstep of 4 Privet Drive .
Rubeus himself leaves to bring Sirius back to Sirius , but not before giving Harry a kiss goodbye on the scarred forehead -LRB- which burns his lips -RRB- .
Minerva reverts back into the cat and slinks around the corner at the other end of the street , but Albus stays to unsyphon the the light from the street lamps and bid Harry farewell before vanishing without a trace .
Harry rolls over inside his bundle of blankets with his small hand closing on the letter as he sleeps on , not knowing he is special and famous , nor that he will be woken up the next morning by his Petunia 's scream when Petunia opens the front door to put out the milk bottles , nor that he will be spending the next few weeks being prodded and pinch by his cousin Dudley .
And he will never know that at this very moment , people meeting in secret all over the country are holding up glasses and saying in hushed voices : `` To Harry -- the boy who lived ! ''

Ten years pass since Dursley have awoken to find Harry lying on their doorstep , and Privet Drive and Dursley ' house has not changed since that day .
The only difference is the vast number of pictures of Dudley throughout his life .
There is no sign that Harry lives there , however , in the Cupboard Under the Stairs , Harry sleeps .
Petunia comes to his door and wakes him with a shrill voice .
Harry is trying to think about the dream he had been having .
It was about a flying motorbike , and he thinks he has had the same dream before .
Petunia tells him to make some bacon , as Petunia wants everything perfect for Dudley 's 11th birthday .
Harry dresses into a pair of Dudley 's old clothes , and goes into the kitchen , where the table is covered in Dudley 's presents .

Harry has jet-black hair and green eyes .
Harry glasses are held together by tape because Dudley has smashed them so many times .
The thing that distinguishes Harry from others the most is the lightning-shaped scar on Harry 's forehead .
Harry often wonders how Harry got it and Dursley have told Harry that Harry got it from the car crash that killed Harry 's parents .
Harry does n't know much more about the accident though because Dursley 's first rule is to not ask questions .
Dudley comes in to the kitchen and begins to count Dudley 's presents , only to find 37 , which Dudley angrily recalls is one fewer than the year before .
Petunia states that they are going to buy Dudley two new presents while they are out .
Vernon tells Petunia that Arabella , their next-door neighbour , has broken her leg and can not take care of Harry while they are at the Zoo .
They ca n't think of anyone else who can take care of Harry , so Harry has to go with them .

Dudley is allowed to take a friend to the Zoo and chooses Piers .
Piers comes to the house with Dudley 's mother .
A half-hour later , Harry sits in the car with Dudley-Piers-Petunia-Vernon .
On the way , a motorbike overtakes them and Vernon complains about them .
Harry explains that Harry had a dream about a flying motorbike once and Vernon snappily reminds Harry that motorbikes do not fly .
Harry thinks about all the strange things that have happened to Harry : Harry once turned Harry 's teacher 's wig blue , jumped onto the school chimney , and grew all of his hair back the morning after a haircut .
At the zoo , Dudley-Piers find the animals boring .
Harry is left to watch a Boa as it sleeps and , when Dudley tries to make it move , it wakes up but still does n't move .
The snake begins to move after Dudley-Piers slink away .
Moments later , Harry speaks to Boa and finds that it miraculously understands Harry .
Piers calls Dudley-Vernon back to Boa 's exhibit upon realising that it is now moving .
Dudley pushes Harry out of the way and presses Dudley 's face against the glass .
Harry becomes angry and somehow the glass vanishes and Boa gets out scaring Dudley-Piers .
As Boa slithers away , Harry thinks that Harry hears it speak back to Harry .
Vernon blames Harry for what happened and sends Vernon to Vernon 's cupboard -- with no meals for a week as punishment .

Ever since Boa escaped from the zoo , and Vernon blamed it on Harry , Harry was locked in Harry 's cupboard for the longest time ever .
When Harry is finally allowed out , it 's the beginning of the summer holidays .
Even though Harry is not at school , Harry still ca n't escape Dudley and Dudley 's gang , who regularly visit the house .
To keep out of Harry Harry usually wanders around Privet Drive .
Harry is glad , however , that Dudley-Piers are going to Smeltings Academy , while Harry is going to attend Stonewall High .
One day during the summer , Harry is told to get the post for Vernon .
When Harry goes to get the mail , there are three letters : a postcard from Marjorie , who is on holiday in the Isle of Wight , a letter that looks like a bill , and a letter for Harry .
Harry takes the letter , studies the yellow parchment it is made of , then reads the address :

'' Mr H. Potter ''

'' The Cupboard Under the Stairs ''

'' 4 , Privet Drive ''

'' Little Whinging ''

'' Surrey ''

Harry ca n't believe it .
He has never had a letter in his life .
On the back there is a wax seal with a Lion , Snake , Badger and Eagle surrounding an H. Harry returns to the kitchen and gives Vernon the other two letters as he sits down and starts to open the letter .
Dudley soon sees that Harry has a letter and Vernon snatches it from him to read with Petunia .
Vernon tells Dudley-Harry to get out of the kitchen , so Dudley-Harry both go and stand in the hall .
The two fight over who gets to look through the keyhole .
Dudley wins , so Harry resorts to looking through the gap between the floor and the door .
Petunia-Vernon are discussing the seal on the back .
Vernon says that Petunia-Vernon should just ignore it .
Later , when Harry is in Vernon comes in and says that he has burned the letter , and that Petunia-Vernon are moving him up to Dudley 's second bedroom .
Slightly surprised , Harry moves all of his things up to the bedroom , wishing he had his letter .
The next morning at breakfast , Dudley is asked to get the post by Vernon .
After banging things all the way down the hall with his Smeltings stick , Dudley calls out that there is another letter addressed to Harry , this time in ' <nowiki> '' The Smallest Bedroom '' </nowiki> ' , rather than ' <nowiki> '' The Cupboard Under the Stairs '' </nowiki> ' .
Both Harry and Vernon rush to the hallway in an attempt to get the letter .
After a minute of confused fighting , Vernon emerges clutching the letter in Vernon 's hand .

Determined to see what his letter says , Harry creeps down the stairs early the next morning and approaches the door .
Harry is going to camp there until the post arrives , then Harry will finally get to read Harry 's letter .
When Harry reaches the door , however , Harry stands on Vernon - who had the very same idea .
Every day , letters appear addressed to Harry , and they are doubling in number .
Eventually , there are so many letters arriving that Vernon resorts to nailing shut the letter box .
But they begin to appear in the strangest of places : under the door , squeezed through the window , and Petunia even finds some while cracking open eggs .
Finally , they get attacked by thirty or forty letters being fired out of the fireplace .
Despite the sender 's efforts , Harry still does not manage to get Harry 's hands on one of the letters for long enough to read it and a furious Vernon states that they are leaving the house .
They get into their car and leave ten minutes later .
They travel for miles until they eventually stop in front of a gloomy hotel on the brink of the city .
Vernon 's attempt to shake the sender off are not successful , however , as more letters come for Harry to the hotel the very next morning .
Again , they get back in the car and finally stop get on a boat that takes them to an island with a small hut on it .
Harry remembers that the next day will be Harry 's eleventh birthday .
When they get there , Harry ca n't sleep with the raging storm outside , so Harry counts down the time until Harry 's birthday .
When Harry 's watch turns to the next day , there is a loud knocking at the door - something wants to get in ...

There is another loud boom on the door and Dudley wakes up , thinking it is a cannon .
Vernon comes through with a rifle , with Petunia cowering behind Vernon .
The door is blasted off its hinges and hits the floor .
A giant enters and fixes the door into its frame .
The giant asks for a cup of coffee then sits on the couch next to Dudley , scaring Dudley away to hide behind Petunia .
The giant turns Dudley 's eyes to Harry and greets Harry , saying Dudley has n't seen Harry since Harry was a baby .
Dudley says Harry looks like Harry 's James but has Harry 's Lily 's eyes .
Vernon tells Harry to leave but the giant merely grabs the gun , ties into a knot and throws it away .
The giant presents Harry with a birthday cake .
Harry asks the giant who Harry is and Harry says Harry is Rubeus , the Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
Rubeus makes a fire and cooks some sausages , but is shocked that Harry knows nothing about Hogwarts .
Harry gets angry at the Dursley for not telling Harry anything about Harry 's parents ' world , '' Harry 's '' world .
Harry has no idea what 's going on .
Rubeus tells Harry Harry 's parents are famous and that Harry 's a wizard , despite Vernon forbidding Harry to .
Rubeus gives Harry the letter that Harry has been craving for .
It tells Harry that Harry has been accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , and that term begins on 1st September .

Rubeus takes out parchment and a Quill and writes a letter to Hogwarts Headmaster Albus , explaining Rubeus has given Harry the letter .
Vernon tells Rubeus that Harry wo n't be going , but the giant knows that a great Muggle like Harry would n't be able to stop Harry from going to Hogwarts .
Vernon reveals Harry knew that Harry 's a wizard , and Petunia tells Harry that Harry 's mother , was a witch .
Petunia said they were killed by another wizard and Harry screams that Petunia said they got killed in a car crash .
Rubeus is as outraged as Harry is that Dursley have lied that much .
Rubeus sits down and tells Harry that a Dark Wizard named Tom killed Harry 's parents and tried to kill Harry too .
But the spell Harry used backfired , only leaving Harry Harry 's scar .
Rubeus tells Harry that Rubeus brought Harry from the ruins of the house and brought Harry to Dursley 's house on 4 Privet Drive .
Vernon says it 's a load of rubbish and tries to persuade Harry that whatever happened to Vernon 's parents was deserved anyway , but Rubeus pulls an umbrella out of Vernon 's coat and threatens Vernon .
Harry asks what happened to Tom and Rubeus tells Harry Harry vanished and has n't been seen since .

Harry doubts that Harry is a wizard until Rubeus asks Harry if Harry ever made anything happen Harry could n't explain when Harry was angry or scared .
Vernon makes the mistake of mocking Albus-Rubeus swishes the umbrella , in Dudley 's direction , and Dudley sprouts a curly pig 's tail .
Rubeus asks Harry not to mention it at Hogwarts because Rubeus is n't allowed to do magic , as Harry had been expelled .
Rubeus takes off Harry 's coat and Harry sleeps under that for the night , for the day ahead .

When Harry wakes the next morning , Harry tries to tell Harry that what happened the previous night had all been a dream and that Rubeus taking Harry to a school for Wizards called Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry has never happened .
But when Harry opens Harry 's eyes , Rubeus had fallen asleep on the couch and Harry finds that it '' has '' all happened .
Harry hears a tapping noise coming from the window and lets in an Owl .
The owl drops a newspaper on Rubeus 's lap and begins to claw Rubeus 's coat .
Rubeus tells Harry to pay the owl so Harry does what Harry says and the owl leaves .
Rubeus tells Harry they have to go and buy Harry 's things , but Harry worries because Harry has n't got any money .
Rubeus tells Harry Harry 's parents did n't leave Harry without money and that their first stop is Gringotts , the wizard 's bank .
He explains that it is run by Goblins and that `` you 'd be mad to try and rob it '' .
Rubeus says Albus also needs something from Gringotts , so Rubeus has to go get it .

They step outside the hut and step into their boat .
Rubeus uses a bit of magic to speed things up for them .
Rubeus says there are Enchantments guarding the vaults in Gringotts .
Gringotts is all under London , and you would die of starvation trying to get out .
Rubeus begins to read the '' Daily Prophet '' and mutters that the Ministry of Magic is messing things up as usual .
Harry wonders what the Ministry of Magic does , and Rubeus explains that they handle everything to do with magic .
Harry says they wanted Albus for Minister , but Cornelius got the job .
As they pass through London , people stared at Rubeus a lot , due to Harry 's size and that Harry is pointing out things that Muggles are brilliant for inventing .
Harry asks if there are Dragons guarding Gringotts .
Rubeus says yes and mutters that Rubeus would like a dragon .
Harry takes out Harry 's list and reads it out .
It says Harry needs a set of Robes , a Hogwarts , Dragon hide gloves , and a winter coat .
There is a list of Harry 's books and stationary equipment .
Rubeus leads them both into a pub called the Leaky Cauldron that Harry did not notice was there .
It is dark and shabby and everyone greets Rubeus as Rubeus enters .
When people see Harry , many get up and shake Harry 's hand , including Doris-Dedalus .
A man with a Quirinus approaches Doris-Dedalus and Rubeus introduces Harry to Quirinus , the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts .
Doris-Dedalus talk for a bit then Rubeus steers Doris-Dedalus out a back door into a small enclosed area with a few barrels .
Rubeus takes out Rubeus 's umbrella and taps bricks with it , counting an order .
Once Rubeus is done , a hole appears in the brick wall , slowly getting bigger , until the wall disappears fully , revealing a crowded street with people wearing robes everywhere with shops left and right .
Rubeus tells Harry the street is called Diagon Alley .

When they are walking down the street , Harry is trying to look everywhere around Harry , taking in as much as possible .
At the end of Diagon Alley , there is a snowy white building , huge in size : Gringotts .
As they enter , a warning echoes through telling them rob at your own risk .
Harry-Rubeus go up to a Goblin and explain Harry-Rubeus need to take some money out of Harry 's vault .
The Goblin asks for Harry 's key and Rubeus presents it , after sorting through many other keys .
The Goblin calls upon another Goblin named Griphook to take them down to the vault .
Rubeus also states they need to be taken down to remove Philosopher in Vault 713 .
Griphook takes them to Vault in question , and Rubeus removes the grubby little package there but ca n't tell Harry what it is .
Griphook then takes them to Harry 's vault , where there is a large amount of money piled up there that Harry owns .
There are Bronze Knuts , Silver Sickles , and Gold Galleons .
Harry-Rubeus take a bit of the money for Harry 's list , then leave Gringotts .
Rubeus has to stand for a bit as the Mine rides that takes Harry-Rubeus to the vaults make Rubeus sick .

Rubeus decides they get Harry 's uniform first so they enter Malkin 's Robes for all Occasions .
Malkin measures him then he sits on a chair next to a Draco getting his robes .
The boy starts to talk about smuggling a Broomstick into Hogwarts somehow , then about something called Quidditch .
Harry feels very out of place with him , as he is talking about houses called Slytherin and Hufflepuff .
The boy points out Rubeus then says the other kind should n't be allowed in .
When Harry leaves , he tells Rubeus says there are four houses at Hogwarts , Quidditch is a game played on Broomsticks and then leave to buy Harry the rest of his things .
All Harry has left is his wand , so he and Rubeus enter Ollivanders , a Wand shop .
Garrick comes round , scaring them both , and greeting Harry-Rubeus .
Ollivander begins to talk about Harry 's parents ' wands , and how he remembers selling them .
Ollivander touches Harry 's scar and apologises for the fact that he sold Wand that caused it .
Ollivander gives Harry a wand and tells him to give it a wave .
Harry did so , but it is n't suitable for him , so Ollivander takes it back .
Harry tries many wands , but none of them seem to work well enough for him .
Eventually , he picks up a wand and he feels warmth in his fingers .
Ollivander states that it is very curious that Harry should be destined for that wand when its brother gave Harry his scar .
Rubeus takes Harry to get something to eat in the Muggle world but Harry is worried that he is n't going to fit in at Hogwarts as everyone expects great things from him .
For Rubeus buys Harry an snowy owl named Hedwig .
Rubeus provides Harry with a Hogwarts , giving him the date , time , and location to catch Hogwarts and tells Harry that if he ever needs anything , he is to write a letter , and Hedwig will know where to find him .
Harry then catches a train back to Dursley .

Harry 's last month with Dursley is unpleasant .
Despite how furious Harry 's aunt and uncle are after Harry found out about Harry 's wizard heritage , they hardly speak to Harry and instead pretend that Harry is n't even were they see Harry is .
At first it was an upgrade , but then becomes depressing for Harry after a while , and Dudley has become so scared of Dudley 's cousin that Dudley refuses to be anywhere near Dudley .
Above all that , Harry is allowed to keep the smallest bedroom with only Hedwig and Harry 's new school books as company .
Harry would lay on is bed and read through the interesting books late at night with Hedwig swooping in and out of the window as she pleases , bringing back dead mice that she leaves lying around the room to make them the main reason Petunia avoids coming in to vacuum .
The day before Harry is due to leave , Harry asks Vernon to take Harry to the King 's Cross station .
Vernon agrees to take Harry but ridicules Harry for saying Vernon is to leave from Platform Nine and Three-Quarters , as is marked on the ticket Rubeus gave Vernon .
The following day , Harry arrives at the station and stands between platforms nine and ten , wondering how to find platform nine and three quarters .
The Dursley leave Harry , and as they pulled away in their car , started laughing , leaving Harry quite stumped .
Finally , Harry overhears some people mention Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry ; it is Weasley who seem to be bound for the school .
Harry asks Molly for help , and she tells Harry to run through the barrier between platforms nine and ten .
Harry does so , and Harry is astonished to find Hogwarts on the other side of the station .
Harry , then , boards Hogwarts .

On the train , Harry is introduced to Weasley , twins who are returning to school for their third year , and to their younger brother Ronald , another student who will be starting at Hogwarts .
They have another brother , Percy , who is returning for Harry 's fifth year as a Prefect , and there are two elder Weasley brothers who have already left school .
The Weasley is poor , and Ronald can not afford the pastries sold on the train , so Harry buys a lot with his newfound wealth and shares them with Ronald .
Ronald introduces Harry to such details of wizard life as Quidditch , Famous Witches and Wizards cards , and Bertie Bott 's Every Flavour Beans .
One of the cards bears the picture of Albus .
Harry also meets a somewhat annoying , overachieving girl named Hermione and sees again the unpleasant boy from the uniform shop , whose name is Draco , this time with Harry 's buddies , Vincent and Gregory .
After Draco makes some rude comments about Ronald , Harry rejects Draco 's offer to advise Harry about associating with the right kind of wizards .
All the students have heard of Harry , and Harry is not sure how to respond to Harry 's fame .
Arriving at the station , the newcomers are led by Rubeus onto boats which they sail to the castle of Hogwarts .

The new students are greeted at the castle door by Minerva , who tells them they will soon be sorted into their houses .
All Hogwarts students live in one of four residences : Gryffindor , Hufflepuff , Ravenclaw , or Slytherin , with each house having its own team for Quidditch .
The houses are in a yearlong competition with one another to acquire the most points , which are earned by success in Quidditch games and given by teachers for academic achievement , and lost for student infractions , in order to win the House Cup awarded at the end of the year .
As the students enter Hogwarts , ghosts appear in the hallway .
The students are led to the Great Hall , where the entire school waits for them .
They see an old pointy hat on a stool .
When the students try on Sorting , it announces the house in which they are placed .
Harry becomes very nervous .
Harry has learned that Harry does not care for Slytherin house , as the students in it are unpleasant and Tom once belonged to Slytherin .
The annoying girl Hermione from the train is Sorted into Gryffindor , much to Ronald 's displeasure .
Finally , it is Harry 's turn to wear Sorting .
Ronald quietly says to Ronald `` not Slytherin , not Slytherin ! ''
.
After a brief mental discussion with Sorting in which it tries to suggest Slytherin to Ronald , Sorting places Harry in Gryffindor .
Harry is pleased to find that Ronald joins in Gryffindor with Harry .
Draco is placed in Slytherin .

Everyone sits down to a grand feast to begin the year .
Harry is overwhelmed by the variety of luscious food served .
Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington , the resident ghost of Gryffindor -LRB- popularly known as Nearly Headless Nick because of a botched decapitation -RRB- , introduces himself to the first-year students and tells them he hopes they will win the house championship this year .
Over dessert , the discussion turns to the students ' upbringings .
A student named Neville tells how his family thought he was a Squib until he survived a fall from a window .
Another student , Seamus , talks about how his father , a Muggle , was shocked when he found out his wife -LRB- Seamus 's Molly -RRB- was a witch .
Harry glances around the room and notices a few of the teachers talking to one another .
One of them , while speaking to Quirinus , stares malevolently at Harry , who immediately feels a sharp pain in his forehead scar .
Harry asks Percy the prefect who Harry is , and finds out that this man is Severus , who teaches Potions .
After dessert , Albus gets up to make Albus 's welcome speech .
Albus adds a few warnings about staying away from the Forbidden Forest and avoiding the 3rd-floor corridor on the right side of the school before sending everyone off to bed in their Common rooms .
On the way , the Gryffindors run into Peeves the Poltergeist and upon arriving , meet the Fat Lady who lets them into Gryffindor Tower after Percy gives her the password .
Harry has trouble sleeping due to dream Harry has .
In it , Harry is wearing Quirinus 's turban , which is demanding Harry to transfer to Slytherin .
Harry refuses , and the headwear becomes more heavier on Harry 's head .
Severus-Draco appear laughing at Draco , then the dream ends with a flash of green light that causes Harry to wake up at midnight and fall asleep again , forgetting about it immediately afterwards .

Harry finds life at Hogwarts unfamiliar and strange .
Everyone talks about Harry , and an adult always seems to be around when Harry is doing something wrong .
It is hard to find Harry 's way to classes due to the forty-two changing staircases and tricky doorways .
The people in the Hogwarts portraits have been no help to Harry , for they ignore some students and visit each other , nor have the ghosts , whom always scare Harry when they glide through a door Harry is trying to open .
Only Nearly-Headless Nick points new Gryffindors in the right direction , but Peeves is worth two locked doors and a tricky staircase whenever Harry runs into Harry when late for class .
Even worse than Peeves if anyhow possible is the school caretaker Argus , who both Harry and Ronald get on the bad side of on their very first morning , when he finds them trying to force their way through a door which turns out to be entance of the out-of-bounds third floor corridor .
He threatens to lock them in the dungeons , but the two boys are luckily rescued by Quirrel , who is passing by .

All the classes become very interesting to Harry , with the only exception being History of Magic , and Harry learns that there is a lot more to magic other than waving Harry 's wand and saying a few funny words .
In Harry 's first Transfiguration class on Thursday , Minerva transfigures Minerva 's desk into a pig and then back again while explaining how Transfiguration itself is some of the most complex and dangerous magic to be learned , and anyone who will get caught messing around with it will have to banned from the class .
the entire class is very impressed , but soon realise that they are not gon na be changing furniture into animals .
Only Hermione is able to make any progress at turning a match into a needle , for which MacGonagall gives her a rare smile , but Harry is relieved to see that Harry 's peers are just as lost as Harry is .
When time comes to transition to Defence Against the Dark Arts class -LRB- the class everyone is looking forward to -RRB- every morning , the lesson turns into more of a joke , as Quirrel keeps going on with stories about Harry 's travels in the year prior , such as when Harry had ward off a vampire in Romania -LRB- whom Harry is afraid will come back and get Harry -RRB- , and when Harry had earned Harry 's turban from an African prince for saving Harry from a troublesome zombie .

During breakfast the first Friday , Hedwig arrives with a tea invitation from Rubeus .
Later , in Severus 's Potions class , Harry discovers that Severus hates Severus , mocking Harry as `` our new celebrity '' and then humiliating Harry for Severus 's ignorance of potion-making materials .
Harry brings Ronald with Harry to Rubeus 's shack for tea .
Harry-Ronald are disconcerted by Rubeus 's huge and fierce-looking dog , Fang , but discover that Fang is gentle .
Rubeus tells Harry that Fang is overreacting to Severus 's treatment , asserting that Severus would have no reason to hate Severus .
Harry happens to notice an article from the wizard newspaper , the Daily Prophet , detailing a break-in that occurred at Gringotts bank in a vault that had been emptied earlier in the day .
Harry realises that it happened on Harry 's birthday , the day Harry and Rubeus went to Gringotts .
Furthermore , Harry remembers that Rubeus emptied vault seven hundred and thirteen , taking a small package with Harry as Harry left .
Harry leaves Rubeus 's , Harry 's mind filled with questions .

Harry has been at Hogwarts for around two weeks when Harry finds out that the Gryffindors will have flying lessons with the Slytherins , much to Harry 's disliking .
Harry does not want to spend more time with Draco than Harry has to .
However , Harry finds that Harry is quite a natural at flying .
Rolanda leads the class , gently sending the new fliers off the ground .
Neville has an accident when Neville 's broom runs amok and breaks Neville 's wrist .
Rolanda takes Neville to the hospital , telling everyone to stay on the ground while Rolanda is away .
Draco notices a Remembrall belonging to Neville , picks it up , and begins to fly around with it .
Harry goes after Draco , who throws Remembrall in the air .
Harry catches it spectacularly and lands safely back on ground .
Just then , Minerva arrives , reprimanding Harry and ordering Harry to follow Rolanda .
But instead of punishing Harry , Minerva introduces Harry to Oliver , captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team , and makes Harry the Gryffindor team 's new Seeker .

At dinner , Harry excitedly tells Ronald about joining the Quidditch team but tells Ronald that Wood wants it to be a secret .
Draco comes over with Draco 's cronies Vincent-Gregory and teases Harry about getting in trouble earlier .
The tension grows and Draco challenges Harry to a wizard 's duel .
Harry accepts , in spite of Hermione 's attempt to dissuade them from breaking the school rules .
As Harry-Ronald sneak out later that night , Hermione tries to stop Harry-Ronald but gets locked out of the dorm -LRB- the The has gone for an evening stroll -RRB- and must tag along .
Neville also joins Harry-Ronald , as Neville has forgotten the password to the common room and ended up sleeping on the floor outside .
Harry-Ronald arrive at the Trophy Room , the site of the duel , but Draco is nowhere to be found .
Suddenly , Harry-Ronald hear Argus and Mrs , enter the room .
With it obvious that Draco tricked them , they begin to hide and then run away .
Not sure where they are going , they accidentally end up in the forbidden area on the third floor , staring at a large and scary Fluffy .
The children manage to get back to their dorm safely , though they are terrified .
Hermione reprimands Harry , but stirs Harry 's curiosity by pointing out that Fluffy was standing on a trapdoor .

The next morning , Harry-Ronald are discussing what the dog could be guarding when the mail arrives .
Harry receives a Nimbus 2000 , along with a note from Minerva summoning Harry to Quidditch practise .
Draco tells Harry that first-year students are not allowed broomsticks .
Draco then tries to report Harry to Filius who just expresses admiration for Harry 's talent having heard from Minerva .
Harry later meets Oliver to learn the basics of Quidditch , including the various positions on a standard Quidditch team and the implements used in the game .
Oliver explains Harry 's role as a Seeker : Harry 's job is to avoid other players and catch Golden .
A Quidditch game can not end until the Snitch is caught , making the Seeker the most important player on a team .
On Hallowe'en , Filius begins teaching his students how to make things fly , using the '' Wingardium Leviosa '' spell .
Only Hermione succeeds ; Ronald , offended by her air of superiority , utters a nasty comment that Hermione overhears .
Harry notices her running off in tears .

Harry-Ronald arrive at the Hallowe'en feast to hear Quirinus , the teacher of Defence Against the Dark Arts , give a terrifying announcement about a twelve-foot troll in the building .
As the prefects lead the students back to their dorms , Harry realises that Hermione does not know about the troll .
They head off to warn Hermione and come upon the troll .
Unwittingly , they lock it in the girls ' bathroom only to realise that Hermione is trapped in there with the troll .
Using teamwork , magic , and a lot of luck , the two of them manage to knock out the troll .
Minerva finds them and begins to scold the boys .
Hermione interjects that Harry-Ronald were looking for Minerva .
Minerva then lies , saying that Minerva went to face the troll Minerva and that Harry-Ronald had been trying to save Minerva 's from it .
At this point , Hermione befriends Harry-Ronald .

As November begins , so does the Quidditch season , and Harry is about to play in Harry 's first match against Slytherin .
To prepare , Harry borrows a book entitled -LCB- -LCB- QTA -RCB- -RCB- from Hermione .
Severus discovers Harry-Ronald-Hermione out with the book one evening and confiscates it from Harry on the feeble pretext that library books may not be taken outside of the school .
Harry 's suspicions of Severus continue to grow .
Harry starts to notice that Severus is limping .
Going off to retrieve the book from Severus , Harry overhears Severus talking to Argus about the fact that Fluffy has attacked Severus , leaving a cut on Severus 's leg , which makes Harry even more suspicious .

The next morning , the Quidditch match begins .
Harry spots Golden early in the game , and is flying toward it when the Marcus pushes him out of the way and is penalised .
Later in the game , Harry 's broom begins jerking uncontrollably .
Rubeus comments that only Dark magic could make a broomstick so hard to manage .
Hermione notices that Severus is staring at Harry and muttering to Severus , signs of casting a curse .
As two of Harry 's teammates , the Weasley twins , try to rescue Harry in the air , Hermione rushes over to Severus in such a hurry that Hermione knocks Quirinus over , sneaks behind Severus , and sets Severus 's robe on fire .
Suddenly , the spell on Harry 's broom is broken and Harry is once again in control .
Harry starts speeding toward the ground and lands , catching the Snitch in Harry 's mouth and nearly swallowing it .

Rubeus takes Harry back to Rubeus 's hut with Ronald-Hermione , who tells Harry that Severus was putting a curse on Severus 's broomstick .
Rubeus does not believe this , asking why Severus would try to kill Harry .
Harry tells Rubeus about Severus getting injured by Fluffy in the third-floor corridor .
Rubeus involuntarily reveals that Fluffy is Rubeus 's , and that what Fluffy is guarding is a secret known only to Albus and a man named Nicolas .

Christmas is approaching .
Draco teases Harry about having to stay at Hogwarts for the holiday , as Draco does not have parents .
Harry , however , is looking forward to spending Christmas away from Dursley , especially because Ronald is also staying at Hogwarts , as Weasley-Mrs are going to visit Ronald 's older brother Charles in Romania .
The day before the holidays , Hermione tears Harry-Ronald away from a conversation with Rubeus to look in the library for more information about Nicolas .
The librarian , Irma , catches Harry prowling around the restricted-books section of the library and kicks Nicolas out .

On Christmas Day , Harry-Ronald awaken to presents , though Harry 's are fewer .
Harry receives a flute from Rubeus , a 50 pence coin from the Dursley , some fudge and Chocolate Frogs from Hermione , and a Weasley from Ronald 's Molly .
He also receives an Invisibility cloak accompanied only by an anonymous note telling him that the cloak once belonged to Harry 's father and to `` use it well . ''
That night , after a satisfying Christmas dinner and after Ronald has fallen asleep , Harry tries on Harry 's Invisibility Cloak .
Unseen , Harry is able to go to the library 's restricted-books section .
But one of the books starts screaming when Harry opens it , so Harry quickly leaves .
Harry passes Argus and hides in an old classroom as Argus is getting Severus to help Harry search the corridors .
Inside stands an old mirror in a gold frame with the inscription '' `` Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi '' '' -LRB- `` I show not your face , but your heart 's desire '' -RRB- .
Harry looks in The and sees many people standing behind Harry , but when Harry turns around in the room , Harry sees no one .
Suddenly , Harry recognises that two of the people in The are Harry 's dead Lily and James .
Harry tries to speak to them , but they can only communicate by waving .
Harry lingers there a while but eventually returns to Harry 's room .

The next night , Harry brings Ronald with Harry to The room .
Ronald does not see Harry 's parents in The , but instead sees himself holding the Quidditch Cup .
Mrs , Argus 's prowling cat , notices them .
On the third night , Ronald is afraid of being caught and does not want to go back , as he does not trust The , so Harry returns alone .
There he finds Albus .
Albus explains to Harry that The , which is known as The , displays the deepest desires of whoever looks into it .
Harry is relieved to find that Albus is not angry .
However , Harry warns Harry that men have wasted away and been driven mad before The and informs Harry that The will be moved to a new location and tells Harry not to go looking for it .
When Harry asks what Albus sees in The , Harry 's answer is `` himself holding a pair of socks . ''

Harry finds it hard to forget the image of Harry 's parents .
Quidditch practise continues on even harder and it is revealed that Severus will referee the next match .
Draco performs a leg-locker curse on Neville , and to cheer Severus up , Harry tells Neville Harry is `` Worth twelve of Draco . ''
Harry suddenly remembers that Harry read the name Nicolas on a chocolate frog card , which reminds Hermione that she had seen the name in a book she picked up from the library , and the team discover that Harry was a famous alchemist who is the only known maker of Philosopher , whose powers include turning any metal to gold and producing the Elixir of Life , a potion that can make the drinker immortal .
The Gryffindor versus Hufflepuff Quidditch match arrives and Severus , who referees the match , is predictably biassed , while on the stands Ronald and Neville get into a scuffle with Vincent-Gregory-Draco after Draco made some rude comments towards the players of their house 's team as well as both of them .
Harry catches the snitch and wins the match under five minutes , though Ronald did not see this due to fighting Draco , and Neville is sent to the hospital wing due to the injuries Ronald sustained from fighting both Vincent and Gregory .
Later , Harry notices and follows Severus into the Forbidden Forest by broomstick where Severus meets Quirinus and they speak of Philosopher .
Harry thinks that Severus is trying to force Quirinus to help Severus get Philosopher so Severus can get rich , to the alarm of both Ronald and Hermione who fear Qurriell will talk .

Harry-Ronald-Hermione meet with Rubeus , who confirms Philosopher is being kept at Hogwarts .
Hermione charms him into talking about the enchantments used to guard it : Fluffy , the three headed dog , is Rubeus 's , along with enchantments from Minerva-Filius-Pomona-Quirinus and Severus .
After this , Harry complains about the high temperature in Rubeus 's hut , only to discover Harry has a Norwegian Ridgeback dragon egg , which Harry names Norberta once it has hatched .
Draco , who has been spying then , discovers the dragon .
To solve the problem , they convince Rubeus to send the dragon off to Ronald 's brother Charlie .
Ronald 's hand is bitten by the dragon , and Ronald is sent off to Madam Pomfrey .
Harry-Hermione smuggle Norberta in a crate up to the tallest tower under Harry 's Invisibility cloak and on the way Harry-Ronald-Hermione see Minerva hauling Draco away to detention for being out of bed at night and speaking `` lies '' about Harry and a dragon .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione pass the crate off to Charlie 's friends , and head back down the stairs , where Harry-Ronald-Hermione meet up with Argus , realising too late Harry-Ronald-Hermione have left the Invisibility Cloak behind .

Argus takes Harry-Hermione to Minerva 's office , where Harry-Hermione meet Neville .
Minerva , very disappointed , takes 50 points each from the three of them and gives them all detention , which they will serve with Draco .
Their popularity with the other students suffers because of this .
A week or so before exams , Harry hears Quirinus , sounding as if Harry is being threatened .
So , Harry heads to the library to tell Ronald-Hermione .
Ronald-Hermione are convinced Severus was threatening Quirinus , and means to steal Philosopher soon , and Hermione suggests Ronald-Hermione go to Albus .
Harry refuses , saying that Ronald-Hermione have no proof .

Harry-Neville-Hermione receive notes from Minerva telling Harry-Neville-Hermione Harry-Neville-Hermione 's detention will begin at eleven that night .
Argus takes Harry-Neville-Hermione out to the Forbidden Forest , where Rubeus awaits to take Harry-Neville-Hermione in to do a bit of investigating .
Rubeus shows Harry-Neville-Hermione some silver unicorn blood , and says Harry-Neville-Hermione need to find the unicorn that is hurt .
Harry-Neville-Hermione split up , with Rubeus taking Harry-Hermione , and Neville-Draco going with Fang .
Rubeus encounters a few centaurs , named Ronan-Bane , but gets no useful information from Ronan-Bane .
Suddenly , Rubeus sees red sparks in the air , signalling the other party is in trouble .
Rubeus runs for them and returns , scolding Draco for startling Neville into sending up the sparks .
Rubeus switches Harry-Neville , sending Harry off with Draco instead .
Harry-Neville eventually find the dead unicorn , and see something drinking its blood .
Draco screams and runs with Fang , leaving Harry , who is saved from the figure by a centaur , named Firenze , who tells Harry that unicorn blood can keep you alive , even if you are an inch from death , but curses you with a half-life in the process .
Harry then reveals that the person who was drinking it was doing so to remain alive until they were able to drink the Elixir of Life and wants Philosopher .
Harry also asks Harry if Harry would not know anyone who has been waiting for years to regain power and Harry realises that the mysterious figure was a weakened but still alive Tom .

Back in the common room , Harry tells Hermione and Ronald Tom 's in the forest and that Severus wants Philosopher to help Tom restore Severus 's powers .
Afterwards , going into Harry finds that Harry 's Invisibility Cloak has been returned to Harry .

After finishing their exams , Harry realises the suspicious coincidence in Rubeus wanting a dragon more than anything else , only to meet a stranger who had one to give him .
He , Ronald , and Hermione run to ask him about the man who gave Norberta to him , and he says he never saw his face because he kept his hood up .
Rubeus also mentions that they talked about Fluffy-Hogwarts .
He also mentions that the stranger gave him drinks while getting information out of him .
Rubeus lets it slip how to get past Fluffy , which sends Harry-Ronald-Hermione off .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione head for Albus 's office , only to see Minerva , who tells Harry-Ronald-Hermione Albus has left for London .
After Harry reveals that Harry-Ronald-Hermione know about Philosopher , Minerva insists no one could steal Philosopher .
The trio realise that Albus has been lured away and that Severus 's going after Philosopher that night so Harry-Ronald-Hermione decide to head out that night to try to get it Harry-Ronald-Hermione .
After Hermione curses Neville in a Full Body-Bind Curse for refusing to allow Harry-Ronald-Hermione to leave , Harry-Ronald-Hermione head up to the third floor room , and start Harry-Ronald-Hermione 's intense trip into the seven Philosopher 's Stone Chambers .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione find the door ajar , and a Harp on the floor .
Harry plays the flute Rubeus got Harry for Christmas , and Fluffy goes back to sleep .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione head down through the trapdoor .
Harry-Ronald-Hermione land in Pomona 's room , full of Devil 's Snare , which almost smothers Harry-Ronald-Hermione before Hermione lights a fire and drives it off .

The next room , Filius 's , holds a bunch of flying keys and some broomsticks .
Harry finds a silver one with a broken wing that is different from the others and catches it , unlocking the next door with it .
The next room is Minerva 's , and has a large chessboard , for a game of Wizard 's Chess that Ronald helps them win , at the cost of having to sacrifice Ronald and getting knocked out .
Harry-Hermione continue to the next room , Quirinus 's , where Harry-Hermione find an unconscious troll laying on the floor .
Lastly , Harry-Hermione enter Severus 's room , and find seven potions in bottles along with a roll of paper giving clues on which one to drink to continue , noting that three bottles have poison , two have nettle wine , one will send the drinker back , and the other will let the drinker move forward into the next room .
Hermione tells Harry that it is a test of logic and not magic wherein most wizards fail .
Hermione solves the puzzle , and at Harry 's instruction , drinks the one that will allow Hermione to head back through the purple flame , while Harry drinks the one to head into the black flame and into the final room , where Harry is surprised at who Harry sees .

It is Quirinus who Harry sees in the room , not Severus .
Harry , astonished , hears Quirinus tell Severus that , next to Severus , no one would expect Severus to try to steal Philosopher and that Severus was actually protecting Harry .
Harry notices The , and Quirinus stops to examine it , saying it is the key to getting Philosopher .
To distract him from the Mirror , Harry questions Quirinus , who says he is serving Tom , and although Severus hated Harry because of his father , he never wanted Harry dead .
He explains how Severus and Harry 's father went to school together when they were younger , and how it was there where their hatred against each other started .
Quirinus asks for help from his master to get Philosopher , and a snake-like voice tells him to use the boy .
Harry is told to look into the Mirror .
He sees his reflection pull Philosopher out of his pocket and put it back in , and Harry feels it drop into his own pocket .
He tells Quirinus that he sees himself shaking hands with Albus , after winning the House Cup for Gryffindor .
The snake-like voice tells Quirinus Harry is lying and Quirinus takes his turban off to show Harry what lies on the back of his head .
As Quirinus turns around , Harry is shocked to see another face where the back of Quirinus 's head should be .
The face has red eyes and a snake-like slit where the nose should be .
Harry realises this is the face of Tom and Tom demands Harry give him Philosopher .
Harry refuses and runs , but Quirinus seizes him .
However , the contact with Harry 's skin burns Quirinus and causes him to have boils all over the area in which Harry touched him .
Harry grabs Quirinus 's face , then his arm , and holds on , with the blinding pain in his head building , until he feels the arm wrenched away before he blacks out .

He awakes in the hospital wing with Albus there , telling him Quirinus did not succeed at getting Philosopher , and indeed Philosopher has been destroyed .
In spite of this , there are other ways in which Tom can return .
Tom can not be killed , and Tom left Quirinus to die .
Albus explains the reason why Quirinus could not touch Harry was because Harry 's Molly had died to save Harry , protecting Harry with her love .
Harry also told Albus about what Quirinus mentioned to Harry earlier regarding Severus hating Harry due to hatred for James .
Albus responds that Severus was only grudgingly protecting Harry this year to pay off a debt he owed due to James saving his life during their Hogwarts years .
Harry then receives a visit from Ronald-Hermione , who reveal that Slytherin came in first for the House Cup and , with Harry unable to play in the championship Quidditch match , Ravenclaw easily won the match , before Madam Poppy forces Ronald-Hermione out .
Rubeus shows up later and gives Harry a book of photos of Harry 's parents and family .

The following day , at the end of term feast , Albus awards some last-minute points for the recent events .
Albus gives Ronald-Hermione fifty points each , and Harry sixty , which places Ronald-Hermione in a tie with Slytherin for first place .
Albus then recognises that while it is hard to stand up to enemies , it is even harder to stand up to friends as Neville did , and Albus awards Neville 10 more points , which was the most house points Neville had ever gotten .
This puts Gryffindor in the lead and the winners of the House Cup , too much rejoicing from everyone but the Slytherins .
Not only were Gryffindor students happy , but Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw were happy to see Slytherins downfall .
Soon , their trunks are all packed , and they take Hogwarts back towards the muggle world.Harry , Ronald and Hermione all say their goodbyes before heading home .

